[PDF Metadata]
Pages: 165

[Content]
UNITED STATES 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS 
WASHINGTON, DC 20555 - 0001 
October 20, 2005 
MEMORANDUM TO: ACRS Members 
FROM:  John 
G. Lamb, Senior Staff Engineer 
ACRS/ACNW 
SUB
..IECT:  
CERTIFICATION OF THE MINUTES THE JOINT MEETING OF THE 
ACRS SUBCOMMITTEES 
ON PLANT PERATIONS AND LICENSE 
RENEWAL REGARDING BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1 PLANT RESTART 
AND LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION, SEPTEMBER 
21,2005 ­
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
The minutes of the subject meeting were certified 
on October 20, 2005, as the official 
record of the proceedings of that meeting. A copy of the certified minutes 
is attached. 
Attachment: As stated 
cc: J. Larkins 
A. Thadani 
M. Scott 
M. Snodderly 
S. Duraiswamy 

UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITIEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20555 - 0001
 
MEMORANDUM TO: John G. Lamb, Senior Staff Engineer, 
Technical Support Staff 
ACRS/ACNW 
FROM:  John 
D. Sieber, Chairman 
ACRS Plant Operations Subcommittee 
SUBJECT:  CERTIFICATION 
OF THE MINUTES OF THE JOINT MEETING OF 
ACRS SUBCOMMITTEES 
Of\! PLANT OPERATION Af\!D LICENSE 
RENEWAL REGARDING BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1 RESTART AND 
LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION, SEPTEMBER 
21,2005 ­
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
I hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that the minutes of the subject meeting 
on September 
21,2005, are an accurate record of the proceedings for that meeting. 
tf)-2D-O~ 
J hn D. Sieber, Date 
lant Operations Subcommittee Chairman 

UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20555 - 0001
 
September 23, 2005 
MEMORANDUM TO: John 
D. Sieber, Chairman 
ACRS Plant Operations Subcommittee 
FROM:  
John G. Lamb, Senior Staff Engineer, 
Technical Support Staff 
ACRSIACNW 
SUBJECT:  
WORKING 
COpy OF THE MINUTES F THE JOINT MEETING OF 
THE ACRS SUBCOMMITTEES ON PL NT OPERATIONS AND 
LICENSE RENEWAL REGARDING BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1 PLANT 
RESTART AND LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION, SEPTEMBER 
21, 2005 - ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
A working copy of the minutes for the subject meeting is  attached for your review. 
Please review and comment on them at your earliest convenience. If you are satisfied with 
these minutes please sign, date, and return the attached certification letter. 
Attachments:  Certification Letter 
Minutes (DRAFT) 
cc 
wlo Attachment: 
J. Larkins 
A. Thadani 
M. Scott 
M. Snodderly 
S. Duraiswamy 
C. Santos 

CERTIFIED 
on 10/20/2005 by John Sieber 
Issued 09/23/05 
ADVISORY 
COMMlrrEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
MINUTES OF THE JOINT ACRS PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL AND PLANT OPERATIONS
 
SUBCOMMITIEES MEETING
 
ON BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1 RESTART AND LICENSE RENEWAL
 
SEPTEMBER 21, 2005
 
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND
 
On September 
21,2005, the Plant License Renewal and Plant Operations Subcommittees held 
a joint meeting 
in Room T-2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The purpose of the 
meetil1g was to gather information regarding the current status and condition of Browns Ferry 
(BF) Unit 1 to support ACRS reviews of the license renewal application for BF Units 1, 2, and 3 
and the restart of BF Unit 1. The Subcommittees will hear presentations by and hold 
discussions with representatives of the staff and Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). 
The meeting was open to the public. No written comments or requests to make oral statements 
were received from members of the public related to this meeting. Mr. John G. Lamb was the 
Designated Federal Official for this meeting. The meeting was convened at 
8:31 a.m. and 
adjourned at 4:23 p.m. on September 
21 , 2005 
ATTENDEES: 
ACRS MEMBERS/STAFF 
Mario Bonaca, Chairman 
John Barton, Consultant 
John Sieber, Chairman 
Graham Leitch, Consultant 
Graham Wallis, Member 
Cayetano Santos Jr., ACRS Staff 
Tom Kress, Member 
John 
G. Lamb, ACRS Staff 
Richard Denning, Member 
NRC STAFF/PRESENTERS 
Y. Diaz, NRR 
R. Subbaratnam, NRR 
K. Tanabe, NRR 
S. Lee, NRR 
M. Chernoff, NRR 
E. Brown, NRR 
J. Tapp, NRR 
G. Taylor, NRR 
J. Strhisha, NRR 
R. Auluck, !'JRR 
M. Heath, NRR 
E. Hackett, NRR 
R. McNally, NRR 
G. Cheruvenki, "IRR 
B. Elliott, NRR 
B. Rodgers, NRR 
L. Lund, NRR 
P.Y. Chen, NRR 
N. Iqbal, NRR 
P.T. Kuo, NRR 
K. Naidu, NRR 
R. Pettis, NRR 
G. Cranston, NRR 
J. Guo, 
!'JRR 
D. Reddy, NRR 
B. Wolfgang, NRR 
J.  Zimmerman, NRR 
1
 

OTHER ATTENDEES 
W. Crouch, TVA 
H. Jones, TVA 
J. McCarthy, TVA 
R. DeLong, TVA 
K. Bryne, TVA 
D. Burrell, TVA 
T. McGrath, TVA 
R. Cutsinger, TVA 
J. Valente, TVA S. Dort, FENOC 
K. Sutton, Morgan-Lewis R.G. Jones, TVA 
C. Beasley, TVA 
R. Moll, TVA 
The presentation slides, handouts used during the meeting, and a complete list of attendees 
are attached to the Office Copy 
of the meeting minutes. The presentations to the 
Subcommittees are summarized below. 
Opening Remarks 
Mr. Sieber,  Chairman of the Subcommittee on Plant Operations, convened the meeting and 
made a few introductory remarks. The purpose of the meeting was to gather information 
regarding the current status and condition of Browns Ferry (BF) Unit 1 to support ACRS reviews 
of the license renewal application for BF Units 
1,2, and 3 and the restart of BF Unit 1. 
Dr. Bonaca stated that the Committee is concerned about how BF Units 2 and 3 operating 
experience applies to BF Unit 
1, restart inspections, material condition, corrective action 
program, restart activities with license renewal, and periodic inspections vs. one-time inspection 
should be clear. 
Mr. Leitch stated he is concerned about how BF Units 2 and 3 operating experience applies to 
BF Unit 
1, and he is concerned about the uprated power level. 
Mr. Barton stated he is concerned that some equipment is 30 years old. 
Mr. Sieber called upon Mr. P.T. Kuo of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation (NRR) to 
make a statement. Mr. Kuo introduced NRR staff members present. He said TVA submitted 
an application for license renewal of BF Units 
1,2, and 3 on December 31,2003 (ADAMS 
Accession No. ML040060361). Mr. Kuo stated TVA subsequently submitted Extended Power 
Uprate (EPU) applications for Unit 1 and Units 2 
& 3 on June 28,2004 (ADAMS Accession No. 
ML041840109), and June 25, 2004 (ADAMS Accession No. ML041840301), respectively. He 
said the EPU has been decoupled from the license renewal application (LRA) based on a TVA 
letter dated January 7, 2005 (ADAMS Accession No. ML050100180). Mr. Kuo explained the BF 
LRA is  based on the current power level. He said the staff Safety Evaluation Report (SER) with 
open items (ADAMS Accession No. ML05221 0484) was supplied to the ACRS on August 9, 
2005. Mr. Kuo stated ACRS Members visited the BF site on August 
24,2005. Dr. Bonaca 
asked about the modifications for the EPU. Mr. Kuo answered the modifications will be 
explained at the October 
5,2005, Plant License Renewal Subcommittee meeting. He said the 
staff is  not making any presentations today. 
Mr. Sieber turned it  over to Bill Couch of TVA to begin the discussion. 
Discussion 
Mr. Couch introduced TVA staff in  attendance. He stated the following are agenda items: 
Regulatory Background, BF Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2 and 3, License Renewal Application, 
EPU Impact on License Renewal, and Summary. Mr. Couch stated there are three major 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approval issues: (1) license renewal at current power, 
(2) EPU, and (3) Unit 1 restart. He said ACRS approval is  required for the LRA and the EPU. 
Mr. Couch stated 'final approval is required for Unit 1 restart by the Region 
II Regional 
Administrator and NRR Director. 
2
 

Regulatory Background 
Mr. Couch provided the presentation slides regarding regulatory background. He said the three
 
Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant Units consist of a General Electric Type 4 boiling water reactor with
 
a Mark I containment that were designed and constructed by TVA. Mr. Couch explained Units
 
1 and 2 were licensed 
in 1973 and 1974, respectively, and both units shutdown after the March
 
22, 1975 Browns Ferry 
'fire. He said Unit 1 and 2 were returned to service in 1976 and
 
operated until 1985. Mr. Couch stated Unit 3 was licensed 
in 1976 and operated until 1985. He
 
said TVA voluntarily shut down all three units 
in March 1985 to correct a variety of issues. Mr.
 
Couch stated Unit 1 has approximately 10 years of operations, Unit 2 has approximately 23
 
years of operations, and Unit 3 has approximately 18 years of operations. He said Units 2 and
 
3 were restarted 
in 1991 and 1995, respectively. Mr. Couch said TVA submitted a proposed
 
update to the regulatory framework for Unit 1 
in December 2003.
 
Note:
 
The TVA regulatory framework letter is  dated December 13, 2002 (ADAMS Accession No.
 
ML023600026). 
In a letter dated August 14, 2003 (ADAMS Accession No. ML032190680), the
 
NRC issued the Regulatory Framework for the Restart of Browns Ferry Unit 
1. This letter lists
 
the significant regulatory actions that require resolution before restart. Region 
1\ has been
 
monitoring the Unit 1 recovery efforts.
 
Mr. Couch stated the Unit 1 NRC oversight is  governed by Manual Chapter 2509, "Browns
 
Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project Inspection Program." He said the restart oversight panel is
 
scheduled to begin 
in Fall 2005 and will provide its recommendation to the Region II Regional
 
Administrator and the NRR Director for Unit 1 restart approval.
 
Mr. Couch explained when the LRA and EPU applications were submitted. He said LRA
 
approval is expected 
in June 2006 and EPU approval is expected prior to Unit 1 restart in May
 
2007.
 
Member Comments on the Regulatory Background
 
Mr. Leitch asked if the design discussed 
in the LRA is the present design or the future design.
 
Mr. Couch answered the LRA design is the future design at the EPU conditions. Mr. Leitch
 
asked about piping modifications. Mr. Couch provided three handouts: (1) Description of
 
Modifications Planned for Unit 1 Restart, (2) Table 1 -Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Poject ­

Piping System Replacements, and  (3) [Non-Destructive Examination] NDE Examinations
 
Performed for Original Non-Replaced Piping. Mr. Leitch asked when the Units expect to reach
 
the EPU conditions provided TVA receives approval of the EPU applications. Mr. Couch
 
responded Unit 1 and 2 expect to irnplement EPU 
in 2007 and Unit 3 in 2008. He said Unit 1 is
 
the lead BF plant for EPU. Mr. Leitch asked about procedures at BF. Mr. Couch answered that
 
each Unit has its own set of procedures.
 
Mr. Sieber asked if  Browns Ferry is  an AppendiX R plant. Mr. Couch responded that Units 2
 
and 3 meet Appendix R with five exemptions and Unit 1 will be brought into compliance with
 
Appendix 
R. Mr. Sieber asked what version of Generic Aging Lessons Learned (GALL) did
 
TVA use. Mr. Couch stated Revision 
1; however, this was corrected to Revision 0 later in the
 
meeting. Mr. Sieber questioned which topical reports are being used for the EPU. Mr. Couch
 
answered that TVA is using General Electric (GE) topical reports EL
TR1 and ELTR2 for the
 
EPU.
 
3
 

Dr. Bonaca asked if the proposed 2002 LRA has changed significantly to today. Mr. Couch
 
responded that originally in 2002 
TVA was working on LRA for Units 2  and 3 only; however,
 
added Unit 1 based on the 2002 
TVA Board decision to restart Unit 1. He said TVA had a good
 
handle on what components needed to be replaced based on its experience restarting Units 2
 
and 3. Mr. Couch said the 
LRA application was complete when it was submitted to the NRC in
 
December 2003. Dr. Bonaca stated there is  no coherent description 
of the Unit 2 and 3
 
operating experience applying to Unit 1 in the LRA application or the staff 
SER with open items.
 
Mr. Couch responded that 
TVA will work with the staff to come up with words for the SER. Mr.
 
Ram Subbaratnam 
of NRR stated it will be in  the final SER. Dr. Bonaca stated BF Unit 1 will
 
start-up 
at a 20% higher power level. He said he would expect a commitment in the LRA for
 
TVA to submit a  report a couple of years before entering the period of extended operation
 
explaining and justifying the EPU for the license renewal.
 
Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2  & 3
 
Mr. 
Joe Valente of TVA presented the slides regarding Unit 1 fidelity with Units 2  and 3. He
 
said the scope 
of Unit 1 restart project incorporated the same restart programs as Unit 2 and 3
 
and upgrades installed on Units 2  and 3  since restart. Mr. Valente stated Unit 1 will 
be
 
operationally the same as Units 2 and 3. He said Unit 1 will have the same systems,
 
equipment, operating procedures, Technical Specifications, and Updated Safety Analysis
 
Report. Mr. Valente said 
TVA deleted the low pressure coolant injection motor generator sets.
 
Mr. Valente described three items from its nuclear performance plan: (1) design baseline
 
verification program, (2) fire protection - Appendix 
R, and (3) Intergranular Stress Corrosion
 
Cracking. He described the Unit 1 lay-up program. Mr. Valente described 
the assessment
 
process for the condition 
of Unit 1. He stated 39 Unit 1 mechanical systems are in scope for
 
Unit 1 recovery and 
47 Unit 1 mechanical systems are in scope for license renewal. Mr.
 
Valente stated 
one system was completely replaced. He described the detailed work
 
performed for 3  systems: (1) high pressure coolant injection (HPCI), (2) reactor water cleanup
 
(RWCU), and (3) feedwater (FW). Mr. Valente described the long-term passive components
 
replaced.
 
Mr. R.J. 
Jones of TVA presented the slides regarding Unit 1 system return to service process.
 
He described the system plant acceptance evaluation (SPAE) process, the phase I system pre­

operability checklist (SPOC) process, and the phase 
II SPOC process. Mr. Jones described the
 
Unit 1 restart test program. 
He said the Unit 1 restart test program is the same as the
 
programs performed on Unit 2 and 3. Mr. 
Jones described the testing for 3  systems: (1) HPCI,
 
(2) RWCU, and (3) 
FW. He described the integrated/power ascension test program. Mr. Jones 
said Phase 1 testing is open vessel testing. He said Phase 
II testing will be up to 55% power. 
Mr. 
Jones stated Phase 3 will be 55% to 83% power. He said Phase 4 will be from 83% to 
100%. Mr. Jones stated that 
100% will be EPU conditions or 120% of the current licensed 
power level. He said Phase 4 will be performed in plateaus of 
2% - 5%. Mr. Jones stated TVA 
will not perform large transient testing for Unit 1, because he said it offers minimal benefit and 
does not justify the risk. Mr. 
Jones stated that TVA is increasing the staff by 126 people. He 
said the Operations crews work 12 hour shifts on a  6 
week schedule. Mr. Jones stated BF has 
2  simulators: 
one for Unit 3 and one for Unit 1. He said the Emergency Plan Guidelines (EPGs) 
are plant-specific. 
Member 
Comments on Unit 1 Fidelitv with Units 2  & 3 
Mr. Leitch asked 
why TVA deleted the low pressure coolant injection motor generator sets. Mr. 
Valente answered that it  simplified the electrical system. Mr. Leitch asked if 
TVA re-did its 
Probabilistic Risk Assessment (PRA) based on modifications to Unit 1. Mr. Valente responded 
that 
TVA re-did its Level 1 PRA and provided a slide with the results (Core Damage Frequency 
(CDF) 
at EPU conditions: Unit 1 -1.77 E-6; Unit 2 -1.55 E-6; and Unit 3  -2.76 E-6). Mr. Leitch 
asked if 
any EPU modifications were done due to PRA. Mr. Valente stated TVA increased the 
volume in  the Standby Liquid Control System. Mr. Leitch asked how 
TVA came up with the list 
for the performance plan. Mr. Valente responded 
these special programs were developed due 
to problems 
at shutdown in 1985. Mr. Leitch asked about net positive suction head (NPSH) on 
4
 

'. 
Emergency Core Cooling System (ECCS) pumps. Mr. Valente answered that TVA takes credit 
for containment overpressure. 
Mr. Leitch expressed a concern regarding the blockage of 
Electro-Hydraulic Control (EHC) piping. 
Mr. Couch responded that TVA plans to work with GE 
to flush the EHC and lube oil system. 
Mr. Leitch asked about medium voltage cables. Mr. 
Valente stated that TVA has not replaced medium voltage cables; however, TVA has performed 
4 
kV cable splices. Mr. Leitch asked how many Technical Specification (TS) changes are 
needed for BF. 
Mr. Couch stated there are 21 TS changes:  16 submitted and 5 completed. Mr. 
Leitch asked if Quality Assurance (QA) is  involved in the SPOC process. Mr. Jones responded 
that Quality Control (QC) is 
in the process and QA looked at 6 systems returned to service with 
no findings. 
Mr. Leitch asked about restart test procedures. Mr. Jones answered that TVA has 
surveillance instructions, surveillance tests, post-maintenance tests (PMTs), and technical 
procedures. Mr. Leitch asked when would TVA test if the RWCU pumps worked. Mr. Jones 
responded it would occur after SPOC Phase I and before SPOC Phase II. Mr. Leitch asked 
how long the Phase 1 power ascension test program would last. 
Mr. Jones responded Phase 1 
power ascension test program will take approximately 3 weeks. Mr. Leitch asked if  a turbine 
overspeed test will be performed as part of the Phase 2 power ascension test program. Mr. 
Jones responded that a turbine overspeed test will be conducted during the Phase 2 power 
ascension test program. Mr. Leitch asked about the closure time of the Main Steam Isolation 
Valve (MSIV) at the EPU higher steam flow conditions and how can TVA justify a MSIV closure 
time of 3 - 5 seconds without dynamic testing. 
Mr. Couch responded that BF 1 has a steam 
flow rate, not 
in terms of mass flow rate, but in terms of velocity, significantly below what other 
plants are running at the EPU conditions and TVA performs stroke time testing on Unit 1 the 
same as Units 2 and 3. 
Mr. Leitch expressed concern that the stroke time cannot be ensured 
at EPU conditions without a dynamic test. 
Dr. Denning asked for an explanation 
in the different PRA numbers for the three units. Mr. 
Couch responded TVA has shared pumps such as the Residual Heat Removal (RHR). Dr. 
Denning asked if  any new scenarios developed due to the higher power level of EPU. Mr. 
Valente said no. Dr. Denning asked if  TVA plans to perform PRA 
in other modes such as fire 
PRA or shutdown PRA. 
Mr. Couch responded TVA does not plan to perform a fire PRA or 
shutdown PRA. Dr. Denning asked if  TVA uses an on-line risk monitor. Mr. Couch responded 
that TVA does use an on-line risk monitor and it 
is called Sentinel. Dr. Denning asked what 
alternatives did TVA consider instead of taking credit for containment overpressure. 
Mr. Couch 
responded that TVA looked for pumps with less NPSH and could not identify any pump to meet 
the 3 psi short-term and long-term containment pressure. Dr. Denning asked if the credit for 
containment overpressure was needed for a 5% power uprate. Mr. Couch responded yes. Dr. 
Denning asked if the 83% power 
in the Phase 3 power ascension test program the same as the 
current 100% licensed power level. 
Mr. Couch responded that 83% at the EPU conditions 
represents the current 100% licensed power level. Dr. Denning asked how TVA looks at 
transient performance. Does TVA use a thermal hydraulic calculation to compare plant 
performance during testing? How does TVA judge plant performance during power ascension? 
How long will Phase 3 last? Mr. Couch stated TVA is  using the simulator for plant performance 
comparisons and Phase 3 will last approximately 70 days. Dr. Denning asked if  TVA had pre­
defined values 
or bars for various equipment and instrument performance parameters. Mr. 
Couch stated that TVA does not have pre-defined bars. Dr. Denning stated he is  not 
comfortable without pre-defined bars and Mr. Couch said TVA can do it. 
Dr. Kress asked if  TVA plans to do a Level 3  PRA. Mr. Couch responded no. 
Mr. John Barton asked about fire protection modifications. 
Mr. Valente answered that all the 
fire sprinklers were replaced. Mr. Barton asked about the fuse program. Mr. Valente 
responded that all the fuses and fuse holders that support Unit 1 recovery have been replaced. 
Mr. Barton asked about re-packing old valves. 
Mr. Valente responded that TVA cycled all small 
valves. Mr. Barton expressed his concern that cycling the valves may not be adequate to 
determine the condition of the packing. Mr. Barton asked if the FW tubes were replaced and 
what was the tube material. 
Mr. Valente stated the FW heaters were not replaced and the tube 
material 
is 304 stainless steel. Mr. Barton asked about the shroud inspections, what were the 
corrective actions, and asked about coatings 
in containment. Mr. Valente said there were minor 
5
 

indications on the shroud welds and there were no through-wall flaws. He said there were no 
corrective actions at this time regarding the shroud. 
Mr. Valente stated the coatings in 
containment looked good overall. Mr. Barton asked why TVA performed 4 kV splices instead of 
replacing the cable. 
Mr. Valente stated it was due to conduit problems. Mr. Barton asked if 
TVA owns the BF switchyard and how work is  coordinated 
in the sWitchyard. Mr. Couch stated 
that a TVA subsidiary owns the switchyard and all work is  coordinated through the control room. 
Mr. Barton asked if labels must be permanent after the completion of SPOC Phase II. Mr. 
Jones answered that the labels must be permanent after completion of SPOC Phase II. 
Mr. 
Barton asked about pressure testing. Mr. Jones responded TVA performs in-service leak test. 
Mr. Barton stated that a large transient test can find problems. 
Mr. Sieber asked if the combustible loading was analyzed for abandoned circuits in-place. Mr. 
Valente responded that abandon circuits are taken into account 
in the analysis. Mr. Sieber 
asked about the Appendix R exemptions. Mr. Valente stated TVA has 5 exemptions: (1) short­
term core uncovery, (2) fire suppression 
in the control room, (3) RHR pump room lack of 
separation is  compensated by a water fire curtain, (4) intervening combustibles - fire loading 
low, and (5) fixed suppression 
in the control building. Mr. Sieber asked about the condition of 
the station batteries. Mr. Valente answered the station batteries have been replaced. 
Mr. 
Sieber asked what are the open items for Unit 1 for Three Mile Island action items. Mr. Valente 
responded the control room human performance/factors analysis. 
Mr. Sieber asked if  hangers 
and supports were replaced or upgraded. Mr. Valente stated 85% of the hangers were 
changed due to a new response spectrum 
in the seismic analysis. Mr. Sieber asked if the 
transmission system operator has the same type of procedures as the plant. Mr. Valente said 
the transmission system operator has the same level of procedures as the plant. 
Mr. Sieber 
asked if TVA performed a heavy loads lifting analysis and who is the TVA crane manufacturer. 
Mr. Couch responded that TVA has performed a heavy load analysis and the crane 
manufacturer is  Ederer. 
Mr. Sieber asked who signs for the acceptance after the completion of 
SPOC Phase I 
& II. Mr. Jones responded that the shift manager and plant manager sign for 
the acceptance after the completion of SPOC Phase I 
& II. Mr. Sieber asked how engineering 
calculations are checked at BF. Mr. Couch responded that TVA engineering calculations are 
peer-reviewed. Mr. Sieber stated that TVA has not performed a large transient test above the 
current 100% licensed power level. 
Dr. Bonaca asked if there were problems with lay-up such as moisture concern or lube oil, if 
TVA took credit for lay-up, and one-time inspections vs. periodic inspections. Dr. Bonaca 
stated that there is  no discussion 
in the application or the SER with open items regarding these 
inspections. Mr. Couch stated TVA will perform baseline inspections, perform inspections prior 
to entering the extended period of operation, perform inspections during the period of extended 
operation, then assess the extent and frequency of further inspections. 
License Renewal Application 
Mr. Rich 
Delong of TVA presented slides regarding the license renewal. He said the lRA was 
submitted on December 31,2003. 
Mr. Delong stated the NRC SER with open items was 
issued on August 
9, 2005. He said there were two open items: (1) drywell shell corrosion and 
(2) stress relaxation of the core plate hold-down bolts. 
Mr. Delong stated there are 39 Aging 
Management Programs (AMPs) total, with 38 common to all three units and 1 for Unit 1 only. 
He said the Unit 1 specific AMP is  the Unit 1 Periodic Inspection program. Mr. 
Delong stated 
there are 12 existing AMPs requiring no enhancements since they are consistent with GALL. 
He said there are 10 existing AMPs requiring enhancements for all Units in order to comply with 
GALL. Mr. 
Delong stated there are 11 existing AMPs revised to include Unit 1 and are already 
consistent with GALL. He said there are 6 new AMPs. 
Mr. Delong described the Unit 1 
Periodic Inspection Program. 
Mr. Joe McCarthy of TVA presented slides on operating experience. He said Unit 1 met the 
requirement of 10 CFR 54.17(c). Mr. McCarthy stated that operating experience is  not limited 
to that of the license renewal applicant. 
6
 

Member Comments on License Renewal Application 
Dr. Bonaca stated the lRA and the SER with open items is confusing regarding one-time 
inspections and periodic inspections. 
Dr. Bonaca said the new AMP for all three units regarding 
One-Time Inspection Program and the new AMP for Unit 1 only Unit 1 Periodic Inspection 
Program need to be kept separate 
in the SER. Dr. Bonaca stated he would expect TVA to 
perform a periodic inspection 2 years before entering the period of extended operation and at 
least one inspection during the extended operation period. Mr. 
Delong responded TVA will 
make a determination of a frequency of periodic inspections after reviewing the rate of 
degradation. 
Dr. Bonaca stated the license renewal rule has never interpreted other utilities 
units operating experience can be applied generically. 
Dr. Bonaca said there is no operating 
experience for Unit 1 since lay-up. 
Dr. Bonaca said that Unit 1 does not need 20 years of 
operating experience but Unit 1 has not started up. 
Dr. Bonaca stated that nowhere in the SER 
or application is the justification for using Units 2 and 3 operating experience acceptable to 
apply to Unit 
1. Mr. McCarthy stated that TVA will work with the staff to put the justification into 
the SER. Mr. Subbaratnam stated that the staff would need a letter from TVA regarding this 
justification to get it 
on the docket. 
Extended Power Uprate Impact 
on License Renewal 
Mr. Couch presented slides regarding the EPU impact on license renewal. He said the EPU 
was prepared using GE's 
ElTR1 and ElTR2 topical reports. Mr. Couch stated Unit 1 has GE 
14 fuel and Units 2 and 3 are transitioning to Framatome 
A-1 0 fuel. He said the original 
licensed thermal power for Unit 1 
is 3293 MWt and the requested EPU power is 3952 MWt. Mr. 
Couch described the modifications required to support EPU. He also explained the parameter 
increases for the various systems. 
Member Comments 
on Extended Power Uprate Impact on License Renewal 
Dr. Bonaca stated he would expect TVA to supply a report to the NRC for review which justifies 
the acceptability of entering the extended period of operation with the extended power uprate 
prior to entering the period. Dr. Bonaca stated that TVA needs to look at EPU before the 
license renewal extended period since BF Unit 1 
is unique; it operated for 10 years, was in lay­
up for 22 years, then will have only 4 years of operation at 120%. 
Summary 
Mr. Couch stated there are three major NRC approval issues: (1) license renewal at current 
power, (2) EPU, and (3) Unit 1 restart. He said ACRS approval 
is required for the lRA and the 
EPU. Mr. Couch stated final approval 
is required for Unit 1 restart by the Region II Regional 
Administrator and NRR Director. 
Mr. Couch appreciated the Committee for allowing TVA the opportunity to present information. 
Member Comments 
Mr. Sieber stated that the ACRS has statutory responsibility for license renewal and power 
uprate. He said the ACRS 
is interested in reviewing the BF Unit 1 Restart Oversight Panel 
report when it 
is completed. 
Dr. Bonaca stated the meeting for the Subcommittee on Plant License Renewal will meet on 
October 5, 2005. He said he would expect the meeting to be similar to other License Renewal 
Subcommittee meeting with some additional topics related to Unit 1 such as lay-up and the 
justification to use Units 2 and 3 operating experience for Unit 
1. 
Mr. Sieber thanked TVA for its presentation and he said it was helpful. Then, Mr. Sieber 
solicited comments from the ACRS consultants and Members. 
7 

Mr. Leitch stated the presentation was helpful especially the list of modifications. He said the 
clarification of the modifications performed 
on the three units was good. Mr. Leitch expressed 
his concern regarding the lack of EPU large transient testing. He stated 
he is especially 
concerned regarding the closure of the MSIV at 120% power. Mr. Leitch stated the MSIV 
closure at 120% power needs to be demonstrated. 
Mr. Barton stated the presentation was helpful especially knowing what 
is being replaced. He 
expressed concern regarding the lack of large transient testing and the timing of the 
application. 
Dr. Denning stated the presentation was helpful. He said separation of 
EPU and license 
renewal 
is key. He said he does not see a concern regarding periodic inspections. Dr. Denning 
stated EPU and start-up are not separable. Sr. Denning asked rhetorically 
if TVA should do a 
major trip test. He said Unit 1 will be at different conditions than before. 
Dr. Kress stated the presentation was helpful. He said transient testing should be a condition 
for restart and 
is certainly an issue for EPU. Dr. Denning stated he would like to see a Level 3 
PRA and the impact of risk on the Environmental Impact Statement. He said the SER ignores 
this risk. 
Dr. Bonaca stated the presentation was helpful. He said he would like to see the 
documentation of the justification of using the Unit 2 and 3 operating experience for Unit 1 
in 
the SER. Dr. Bonaca stated the periodic inspection program is good. He said large transient 
testing needs to be done. Dr. Bonaca stated this testing will be looked at as part of the EPU 
review. 
Mr. Sieber endorsed Dr. Bonaca's comments. He thanked the staff for the SER and thanked 
TVA for the presentation. Mr. Sieber adjourned the meeting. 
Subcommittee Decisions and Follow-up Actions 
The Subcommittee Chairman will summarize the discussions to the full Committee during the 
October 2005 ACRS meeting. 
Background Materials Provided to the Committee 
1.  TVA, "Application for the Renewal of the Operating Licenses for Browns Ferry Nuclear 
Units 
1, 2, and 3," December 31 , 2003 (ADAMS Accession No. ML040060361) 
2.  TVA, "Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant -Units 
1, 2, and 3 -January 28, 2004 Meeting Follow­
Up - Additional Information - Supplemental Information - Unit 1 Wet Lay-Up," February 
19, 2004 (ADAMS Accession No. ML04051 0241) 
3.  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, "Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant, Units 
1,2, and 3 
NRC License Renewal Scoping, Screening, and Aging Management Inspection Report 
05000259/2004012 (DRS); 05000260/2004012 (DRS), 05000296/2004012 (DRS) ," 
January 27,2005 (ADAMS Accession No. ML05027022) 
4.  Brookhaven National Laboratory, "Audit and Review Report for Plant Aging 
Management Reviews and Programs, Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant Units 
1, 2, and 3," 
April 26, 2005 (ADAMS Accession No. ML051180464) 
5.  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, "Safety Evaluation Report with Open Items 
Related to the License Renewal of the Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant, Units 
1, 2, and 3," 
August 2005 (ADAMS Accession No. ML05221 0484) 
8
 

********************************************* 
NOTE:
 
Additional details of this meeting can be obtained from a transcript of this meeting available 
in
 
the NRC Public Document Room, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD,
 
(301) 415-7000, downloading or view on the Internet at http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc­
collections/acrs/ can be purchased from Neal 
R. Gross and Co., 1323 Rhode Island Avenue, 
NW, Washington, D.C. 20005, (202) 234-4433 (voice), (202) 387-7330 (fax), 
nrgross@nealgross.com (e-mail). 
*********************************************** 
9
 

•
 
UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20555
 
September 7, 2005 
MEMORANDUM TO: 
Michael 
L. Scott, Branch Chief, ACRS/ACNW 
~ 
/; . 
\. 
~-.-.r-" 
/;:r~~ 
(,.,­
.,) I 
FROM: 
Cayeta 0 Santos, Senior Staff Engineer 
SUBJECT:  
FEDERAL REGISTER NOTICE REGARDING 
THE 
JOINT MEETING OF THE ACRS SUBCOMMITTEES 
ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL 
AND ON PLANT 
OPERATIONS, SEPTEMBER 
21,2005, ROCKVILLE, 
MARYLAND 
Attached is a  Federal Register Notice regarding the subject meeting. Please have this 
Notice transmitted for publication as soon as possible. 
Attachment: 
FR Notice 
cc with Attachment: 
M. Bonaca, ACRS 
J. Larkins, ACRS 
J. Szabo, OGe 
A. Bates, SECY 
J. Dixon-Herrity, OEDO 
S. Burnell, OPA 
R. W. Borchardt, NRR 
D. Matthews, NRR 
P. Kuo, NRR 
M. Chernoff, NRR 
M. Marshall, NRR 
E. Hackett, NRR 
Y. Diaz Sanabria, NRR 
R. Subbaratnam, NRR 
T. Marsh, NRR 
PMNS 
Public Document Room 

[7590-01-Pl 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
JOINT MEETING 
OF THE SUBCOMMlrrEES ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
AND ON PLANT OPERATIONS
 
Notice of Meeting 
The ACRS Subcommittees 
on Plant License Renewal and on Plant Operations will hold 
a joint meeting 
on September 21, 2005, Room T-2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, 
Maryland. 
The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. 
The agenda for the subject meeting shall 
be as follows: 
Wednesday, September 
21,2005 - 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. 
The purpose 
of this meeting is to gather information regarding the current status and 
condition 
of Browns Ferry Unit 1 in preparation for ACRS reviews of the license renewal 
application for Browns Ferry Units 
1, 2, and 3, and the restart of Browns Ferry Unit 1. The 
Subcommittees will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives 
of the 
NRC staff, Tennessee Valley Authority, and other interested persons regarding this matter. 
The Subcommittees will gather information, analyze relevant issues and facts, and formulate 
proposed positions and actions, as appropriate, for deliberation by the full Committee. 
Members 
of the public desiring to provide oral statements and/or written comments 
should notify the Designated Federal Official, Mr. Cayetano Santos (telephone 301/415-7270) 
five days prior to the meeting, 
if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. 
Electronic recordings will be permitted. 
Further information regarding this meeting can be obtained by contacting the 
Designated Federal Official between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. (ET). Persons planning to attend 
this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual at least two working days prior to 
the meeting to be advised 
of any potential changes to the agenda. 
Date: 

· ... 
_"""-"""-;;.......,;"._~"',:""p;-"r.i.~;r,""_~~.""'.~.~;-~~.-~.
~~,~-,,::f:-,~_~;,;._.,~y. 

/ 
Feder<!-l Regis!er/VotZO;~,l':J9' }78/Thll±s,day, ,September 15;;::?9-9~L~@t!~l', 
. -.. -' . 
appropriateC\rraIfgenientsclj.frlJe illadt;l.' 
Rates (Z9C;FRpart 40Q6}pre,scrrib
l3ll
se 
KADQRE
Eledronic recordiugsWilloepElrwItted, 
of 
an assumed interestt(lte (the'',' , 
0; aDd E
~:~~~~~~J{~!;'~7~t~,.
'FurthE1r inforniaHon·rt;lgill-ding,this, ' 
,"requiredinte'rest rate")STI:determiniiIg 
t Streel 
meeting 
canbe 9WaJ.?ea'lJy,contacUng, 
'the Designated'FederaIOfficial'between 
7:30a,m. arid 4:15,p,ni. 
(ET), Persons 
, 
plan~ing to ~ttend·thj§:IIJ.eetin:g'ar!J" 
,urged to Ge>:n,tacUge)l,D8YEqlw:ged",' 
individual at lea,sUwq ~prking,days 
priorJo the meeting,tob,e~advised ~f any 
pptential change
9
Jo tll}:l(lgenda." 
,  Dated: Septetnb~r8,2605. ~
 
Michael L.Scott, ,',',
 
B'ranch Chief; ACJjSiASl\IW' ' 
[FR Doc. E5-5021 FiJed g..,.1~05; 8:45 am] 
BILtiNG CODE 759Cf-oi2p" ", 
,,';' ;" 
PENSIONBENEFrr,GUARAfnY,
CORPORATiON,,' ,',' 
" 
?-single,employer plan's ,V~iable"r8.te 
premium. Purs'uahttothePension :' 
Funding Eq'uityActof,zoq4; fot, 
"p:remiunrpaymentyearsbegiJirIingin 
2()04:brJ2005;~thereq:l1ired,'iiJ.terestrate 
is, the'/iapplicableperceritafW" 
(cUITerltl}t85perceIltl,bftfre'hnnu~I'rate 
olin:tgr~st-deterniined ,by the.Secretaiy , 
of tHe Treasury on amo,jlntsinve5t'ed 
con;;Elryativelyin 
long-tennJnvespnent 
gra~13 .G1)~poratebi;mdsfor !he J?onth' ',' 
prep3Cli,rigthe beginning ,ofthepl~n'yeaI 
fOJ:Wliich prE3miums are ~~,!:ilg~paid~ , 
,fh~,s,tller~quired iIl!ere~t.r~tgt9J)e '
 
l1s.~q}~.;~·l3te~niining\za:ri~~l,~;I~t~i" '
 
'pr"E)iPiHW~JOrprE;ll1il,lmPilY@~lJ:tyears
 
, begrri,"·".jn Septemg13tfq9,~,fs4.in' 
.¢,:, ~?percent 'ofthe'~.42 , 
jtip05ite,coipo,~(lte'l;i,\tp,d'r.ate.' 
'tzqo~ as d~ter:rni:q,~q.py tIle 
, l'/':'i""y,)~ "  "   , ,',,:, ' 
''Fhe(f61loWing table:lists':¢erequired 
int~resl'fatestobe'used'iIi.:-Cle!erininihg 
Yap~ble-rat~'premiiiiIlSifdtpier.nhim 
paYmd'Ill:years.l,JeghlDiIi~'~R~t'WEJei<' ' 
"OGtQperr20Q2fahd"Si:jpfenil:)J'i1·;too~'., 
j~-:-_::c:'~ "J~ I ~t.~ ,'~_ 
Depufy'-f;i.ec:..uljv~Director:-p~risi" 
9303;
GuaratityCQrpora(i()~. "   ":' 
~5q,.,
[FR lJoc.O!?d832:7Filed 9:-14::'-0  
,Main 
FOR F 
Marc 
(ZOZ)
SECLJ,RITIEg'ANpEXCH!\J'i§" 
Bra,n
COMMISSION ",  
(Divi 
Offic
[lmie~tn1eht.Col11pany ActR~I~a> 
R~Jgl
27060;81~:-13134l ., 
, SUl'f 
foUe 
appl 
,may 
Con 
100 
205 
Apl 
1 
'unl 
rna 
isc 
Ma 
Of1 
tOE 
,co~ 
an 
IJll 
El: 
'a" 
aE 
iII 
In 
,Sf 
F­
51 
C 
a· 
: r~ 
< .";, .;'~" ':--'., 
"'-~, .23' ',,: »'j.:;'" 

Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards
 
Joint Meeting of the Plant License Renewal and Plant Operations Subcommittees
 
Browns Ferry Unit 1
 
September 
21,2005 
-PROPOSED SCHEDUlE-
Cognizant Staff Engineers:  Cayetano Santos Jr. CXS3@I\IRC.GOV (301) 415-7270 
John 
lamb 
JGl1 @NRC.GOV 
(301) 415-6855 
Topics 
1/ 
Opening Remarks 
/
 
v/ 
v' 
V 
#( 
V
 
/
 
/
 
t/ 
Regulatory Background 
BFN Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2 
and 3 
Break 
v 
BFN Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2 
and 3  (continued) 
lunch 
BFN Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2 
and 3  (continued) 
Break 
II 
Extended Power Uprate Impact 
on License Renewal 
License Renewal Application 
Subcommittee Discussion 
Presenters 
Time 
Questions 
to be 
Addressed' 
Bonaca and 
Sieber, ACRS 
8:30am - 8:35am 
B. Crouch, TVA 8:35am - 9:00am 
Background 
for 1,   2, 
6,8 
J. Valente and 
R. Jones, TVA 
9:00am - 10:30am 
1 -11, 15, 16 
10:30am - 10:45am 
J. Valente and 
R. Jones, TVA 
10:45am - 12:30pm 1 -11, 15, 16 
12:30pm - 1:30pm 
J. Valente and 
R. Jones, TVA 
1:30pm - 2:45pm 
1 -11, 15, 16 
2:45pm - 3:00pm 
R. Delong and 
J. McCarthy, 
TVA 
3:00pm - 4:00pm 
12 
R. Delong and 
J. McCarthy, 
TVA 
4:00pm 
- 5:00pm 
13 
Bonaca and 
Sieber, ACRS 
5:00pm - 5:30pm 
NOTE: 
•  Presentation time should not exceed 50 percent of the total time allocated for a specific item. 
The remaining 50 percent of the time is  reserved 
for discussion. 
•  50 copies of the presentation materials 
to be provided. 
IN
RC staff responses to questions 14,  15, and 16 will be presented at the Browns Ferry, 
Units 1, 
2, and 3 license renewal subcommittee meeting on October 5, 2005. 

QUESTIONS REGARDING BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1
 
START-UP AND LICENSE RENEWAL
 
1.  Which systems were replaced entirely? Why were they replaced? Which systems were 
left intact? Which systems were partially replaced? What was the logic/basis for only 
partially replacing these systems? What 
is the schedule for future replacements? How 
much has been completed? How much still needs to 
be done? Regarding system 
replacements or partial system replacements, are there firm commitments or just plans? 
What are the criteria for replacement? 
2.  Which components were replaced? Why were they replaced? What was the logic and 
basis for the component replacement? How much has been completed? How much still 
needs to be done? Are there firm commitments or just plans? What are the criteria for 
replacement? 
3.  Discuss maintenance of Unit 1 equipment during the shutdown period. Any unusual 
aging of systems, structures, and components (SSCs) during the shutdown period? 
What criteria were used for evaluation? What standards were used? 
4.  Which equipment was in lay-up? How was the lay-up performed? What standards were 
used? Were EPRllay-up guidelines used? If 
so, what standards were used prior to the 
issuance of EPRI lay-up guidelines? What kind of inspection was performed on the laid­
up equipment? What were the results? What criteria were used for evaluation? 
5.  What kinds of NDE were performed on equipment, cables, and piping that were not 
replaced? How did the equipment, cables, and piping fare since 1985? 
Is there a 
projection of when that equipment, cables, and piping would need to 
be replaced? Are 
the projections by analysis or engineering judgment? 
6.  Over the years since Unit 1 has been shut down, most of the BWR fleet has been 
modified 
in significant ways. Will Unit 1 be modified to incorporate these changes? 
(e.g., Materials? 316 L 
in recirc lines or MSIP or what? Core spray and RWCU system 
materials? Capping of 
CRD return line? Removal of LPCI loop selection logic? RWCU 
Pump and piping modifications? Will there be Hydrogen water chemistry? Noble 
metals?) Will there be Alternate 
rod injection? What work and/or inspections have 
been performed on the Shroud? Will Unit 1 implement the programs associated with 
the BWR Vessel and Internals Project (BWRVIP)? Explain the status of implementing 
BWRVIP programs. 
7.  How are the operators and other permanent staff being expanded to cover the additional 
requirements of a third unit (Unit 1)? How is the training for the additional crew 
members being provided? Is  it a completely new crew or upgraded crew from Units 2 
and 
3? What are the major differences between Units 1, 2, and 3? EPGs are plant 
specific and were developed after Unit 1 was shut down. What EPGs are being used? 
8.  Is Unit 1 being modified in any significant way from Units 2 and 3? If so, will these 
modifications be incorporated into Units 2 and 
3? When will the simulator be modified? 
Which unit will it  replicate? 
9.  Is Unit 1 in a separate security/radiological area from 2 and 3? Do permanent plant 

ADVISORY COMMITIEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITIEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL/PLANT OPERATIONS
 
September 21! 2005
 
Date
 
PLEASE PRINT 
NAME AFFILIATION 
W,II;....-\J. C("o~c.~ 
'TVA 
/-to,/, Lc ~onu 
Lv-A 
~oe. Mv&~":l 
TVA 
£'(~A-~I) It ])r;.LOrJb 
\(e0bO ~ A., Br-V\ '<> a 
\)<1yt'Q J>u.rC-'?-\' 
-r~,..~?f'. yY\C'(; tR+l 
JZ/(!K {~~S//\IG~ 
Joe I!e..-/c.'t/~ 
(VA­
-D!,4~---­
>
Lew, ( 
TVfi
 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMIITEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAUPLANT OPERATIONS
 
September 
21,2005
 
Date
 
NRC STAFF SIGN IN FOR ACRS MEETING
 
PLEASE PRINT
 
, I 
NRR../ DL.PM Ip[)1T-". 
_N(2;R1 DLPM J-ffi-lt--=-~-=----
N te..fl.. /bVPr'Y'\ I 1'1>rr , 
R. -A\A.. LlAcl
oL 
rfP£-1 D R-l P( R L~.p 
M, HEATI± 
~ ~-rr 
_----JJJI1.II:U-::z=) Dfi ,I ~ C$~ 
rJRPI D£1EMe£> 
IYf-e-!'D I?I1'J 
10(L¥L rDIf' M 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAUPLANT OPERATIONS
 
September 21! 2005
 
Date
 
NRC STAFF SIGN IN FOR ACRS MEETING
 
PLEASE PRINT
 
NRC ORGANIZATION 
/VI'L-4-/ f) /2.-1,,0 / ~ ~p 
Iv It J2. jj)~~A= (S pe,13 
,0 (L(L/ i) S SA I
I
3l..---_-:­~ P..=L-I-J
\\}~~ J)~S er,ls!?'vJ6c----­

TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY 
rm
BROWNS 
FERRY NUCLEAR PLANT 
BrownsF~~r~y 

• 
• 
•
In]

Agenda 
• Regulatory Background 
• Browns Ferry Unit 1 Fidelity with Units 2 and 3 
• License Renewal Application 
• Extended Power Uprate Impact 
on License Renewal 
• 
Bill Crouch 
1 

• 
• 
• 
Summary  
rm 
•  Three Major NRC Approval Issues 
-License renewal at current power 
-Extended Power Uprate 
-Unit 1 restart 
•  Plan for Integration of the Three Issues Coordinated with NRC 
Staff 
•  ACRS Approval Needed for License Renewal Application and 
Extended Power Uprate 
•  NRC Staff Approval Required for Unit 1 Restart, License 
Renewal Application, Extended Power Uprate 
•  Final NRC Approval Required for Unit 1 Restart (NRR and 
Region 
II Administrator) 
Bill Crouch 
2 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Regulatory Background 
•  All Three BFN Units are General Electric Boiling Water Reactor 
4, with a Mark I Containment 
•  Designed and Constructed by TVA 
•  Units 1 and 2 Licensed in 1973 and 1974, Respectively 
•  Both Units Shutdown after March 22, 1975 Fire 
•  Units 1 and 2 were Returned to Service 
in 1976 and Operated 
until 1985 
•  Unit 3 Licensed 
in 1976 and Operated until 1985 
•  Approximate Years 
of Operation
 
-Unit1 -10
 
-Unit2 -23
 
-Unit3 -18
 
Bill Crouch 
3 

• 
• 
• 
Regulatory Background  
fiID 
•  All Three BFN Units, Shutdown in March 1985, Because of 
Regulatory and Management Issues 
-NRC issued a "show cause" letter for all TVA nuclear plants in 
September 1985, under 10 CFR 50.54 (f), and requested TVA to 
specify corrective actions 
- TVA submitted the Nuclear Performance Plan 
in August 1986. 
It outlined the steps needed to restart the units. 
o Management and organizational changes 
o Process and program improvements 
o Special prog rams 
-TVA committed to obtain NRC approval prior to restart of any unit 
Bill Crouch 
4 

•  
• 
• 
[lID

Regulatory Background 
•  TVA Implemented the Unit 2 Restart Plan, Obtained NRC 
Approval, and Restarted Unit 2 
in May 1991 
•  TVA Proposed Regulatory Framework for Restart of Units 1 and 
3 
in July 1991 , Outlining Improvements to the Unit 2  Restart Plan 
Based on Lessons Learned from the Unit 2 Restart 
•  NRC Approved the Regulatory Framework 
in April 1992 
•  Unit 2 was Removed from the "Problem Plant List" 
in June 1992 
•  TVA Implemented the Unit 3 Restart Plan, Obtained NRC 
Approval, and Restarted Unit 3 
in November 1995 
Bill Crouch 
5 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Regulatory Background 
•  NRC Removed Units 1 and 3 from the "Watch List" in June 1996. 
Unit 1 Removal was Based 
on TVA Commitments to: 
-Implement the same special programs employed for Unit 3 restart 
-Not to restart Unit 1 without NRC approval 
•  First of Four Consecutive INPO 1 Ratings Received in 1998 
•  TVA Board 
of Directors Decided in May 2002, to Restart 
Unit 1 after Detailed Study and Supplemental Environmental 
Impact Statement 
Bill Crouch 
6 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Regulatory Background 
•  TVA Submitted a Proposed Update to the Regulatory Framework 
for Unit 1 
in December 2002 
- Addressed regulatory requirements (outstanding Bulletins, Generic 
Letters and Three Mile Island items deferred for Unit 1), special 
programs, commitments, and Technical Specification changes to be 
completed for restart 
•  Unit 1 NRC Oversight Governed by Manual Chapter 2509 
"Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project Inspection Program" 
-Applicable to Unit 1 through restart until all cornerstones are 
monitorable under the reactor oversight process 
- Establishes restart oversight panel (tentatively scheduled to begin 
in 
Fall 2005) to provide recommendation to Region II Regional 
Administrator and Director 
of Nuclear Reactor Regulation on Unit 1 
restart approval 
Bill Crouch 
7 

•  
•
• 
[iID

Regulatory Background 
•  License Renewal Application Submitted December 31, 2003 for Units 1, 
2, and 3 
-Consistent with Generic Aging Lessons Learned
 
-Applies to current licensed thermal power 
of each unit
 
•  License Renewal Approval Expected in June 2006 
•  Extended Power Uprate Application Submitted June 28, 2004 for Unit 1 
and June 25, 2004 for Units 2 and 3 
-Consistent with General Electric's Extended Power Uprate Topical Reports 
-Incorporated all lessons learned and requests for additional information from 
previous industry Extended Power Uprate applications 
-Separate submittal for Unit 1 since Units 2 and 3 previously uprated 
5% 
•  Extended Power Uprate Approval Expected Prior to Unit 1 Restart 
(May 2007) 
Bill Crouch 8 

•
 
•
 
•
 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Unit 1 Project Objective 
•  Maximize Unit Fidelity 
Utilize existing BFN design criteria, design process, design calculations 
- Utilize TVA procedures, programs, and processes 
(Procurement, Work 
Control, Nuclear Performance Plan) 
Scope of Unit 1 restart project incorporated 
o  The same restart programs as Units 2 and 3 
o  Upgrades installed on Units 2 and 3 since restart 
o  Capital projects on the Units 2 and 3 five-year plan through May 2007, including 
Extended Power Uprate and License Renewal 
- Unit 1 will be operationally the same as Units 2 and 3 (same systems, 
equipment, operating procedures, Technical Specifications, Updated Final 
Safety Analysis Report) 
o  Obsolete equipment replacement 
o  Extended Power Uprate lead unit 
o  Deletion of Low Pressure Coolant Injection Motor Generator sets 
o  Outage modifications sequence 
• Return Unit 1 in a Better Condition than when it was Originally Licensed 
Joe Valente 
9 

• 
•
• 
[iID

Unit 1 Project Description 
• Summary of Unit 1 Major Issues
 
Nuclear Performance Plan 
°Component and piece part qualification 
°Containment coatings 
°Environmental Qualification 
°Flexible conduit 
°lnstrument sensing lines 
°Moderate energy line breaks 
°Seismic design 
Performance upgrades 
License Renewal 
Extended Power Uprate 
°Design Baseline Verification Program 
°Electrical issues 
°Fire Protection -  Appendix R 
°Fuse Program 
°lntergranular Stress Corrosion Cracking 
°Restart test 
Joe Valente 
10 

• 
• 
Unit 1 Project Description 
• 
iIID 
-Other 
o Station blackout 
o Anticipated Transient Without Scram Rule 
o BWRVIP 
o Generic Letters -  24 
o Bulletins -14 
o Three Mile Island action items -11 
o Technical Specification changes -21 
Joe Valente 11 

•  
• 
• 
[lID

Unit 1 Project Description 
•  Lay-up Program 
-Purpose 
o Preserve the asset for potential restart of the unit
 
-Criteria
 
o  EPRI NP-5106, "Sourcebook for Plant Layup and Equipment 
Preservation", Revisions 0 (1987) and 1 (1992) 
-Types of layup 
o  Dry 
-Systems
 
-Components
 
o  Wet 
Joe Valente 
12 

•  
•
• 
[i!lJ

Unit 1 Project Description 
Systems in Layup 
o  Dry
 
-Core Spray
 
-Reactor Core Isolation Cooling
 
-High Pressure Coolant Injection
 
-Residual Heat Removal
 
-Condensate
 
-Feedwater
 
-
Off Gas
 
-Main Steam
 
o  Wet
 
-Reactor Vessel
 
-Recirculation
 
-Control 
Rod Drive
 
-Results met or exceeded EPRI Guidelines 
No credit was taken for the lay-up program 
in determining the 
acceptability 
of structures, systems, or components for Unit 1 
restart 
Joe Valente 13 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Unit 1 Project Description 
•  Assessment of Unit 1 Condition 
-Identified attributes of structures, systems, and components 
necessary for engineering analysis to ensure design criteria and 
standards met 
-Performed walk downs and ultrasonic inspections 
of Nuclear 
Steam Supply Systems and Balance of Plant Systems 
-Additional visual inspections were performed during component 
replacement / refurbishment 
- Remote inspections of Core Spray, Residual Heat Removal 
pump suction, steam lines 
Joe Valente 
14 

• 
• 
• 
[lID
Unit 1 Project Scope 
• 39 Unit 1 Mechanical Systems in Scope of Unit 1 Recovery 
• 47 Unit 1 Mechanical Systems 
in Scope of License Renewal 
•  1 System Completely Replaced 
•  33 License Renewal Systems Partially Replaced / Modified 
-350/0 of large bore piping replaced 
-25°A> of small bore piping replaced 
-15°A> of valves replaced 
• 8 Systems in Operation to Support Units 2 and 3 
• List of Modifications 
•  Three Example Systems
 
-High Pressure Coolant Injection
 
-Reactor Water Cleanup
 
-Feedwater
 
Joe Valente 
15 

• 
• • 
[lID
High Pressure Coolant Injection 
•  Function of System
 
-The High Pressure Coolant Injection System provides core cooling I injection
 
for small breaks and depressurizes the reactor coolant systems 
to allow low­

pressure coolant injection 
and core spray flow.
 
- Provides reactor vessel make-up, pressure control, and decay heat removal 
during transient events 
•  Modifications to System 
-Replace various cables, relays, pressure switches, and transmitters to resolve 
environmental qualification, separation, and breakage issues 
-Replace valves and motors for environmental qualification and Generic Letter 
89-10 Motor Operated Valve testing requirements 
- Refurbish 
I upgrade GE supplied High Pressure Coolant Injection turbine I 
pump skid to include impeller replacement and seismic requirements 
Joe Valente 
16 

•  
•
• 
[lID

Reactor Water Cleanup 
•  Function of System 
-Maintains high reactor-water purity to limit corrosion, chemical interactions, 
fouling, and deposition 
on reactor heat transfer surfaces 
-Removes corrosion products to limit impurities available for activation by 
neutron flux and the resultant radiation from deposition 
of corrosion products 
- Provides a means for removal 
of water from the reactor vessel during normal 
operations 
•  Modifications to System 
-Remove and replace process piping 
-Replace Motor Operated Valves for GL 89-10 requirements 
-Replace pumps and regenerative heat exchangers 
-Reroute flow to the reactor water cleanup pump suction resulting 
in lower 
temperature water entering the pumps
 
-Replace instrumentation
 
Joe Valente 
17 

• 
• 
• 
Feedwater  
rm 
• Function of System 
- Provides water at an elevated temperature to the reactor vessel during normal 
plant operations 
•  Modifications to System 
-Replace valves due to stellite content 
-Install Digital Feedwater Control system 
-Install zinc injection passivation system 
-Replace Reactor Vessel Level Indicating System reference and sensing lines 
-Replace rotors 
on feedwater pump turbines to support Extended Power Uprate 
conditions 
-Replace reactor feedwater pumps, pump 
I turbine couplings, bearing 
temperature, and vibration monitoring instrumentation to accommodate 
increased flows for Extended Power Uprate 
Joe Valente 
18 

•  
• 
• 
[lID

Unit 1 Project Scope 
•  Long-Term Passive Component Replacements 
-Condenser tubes 
-Extraction steam piping 
-Turbine cross-over 
I cross-under piping 
-Reactor Building Closed Cooling Water heat exchangers 
-Drywell structural steel and electrical penetrations 
-Large and small bore piping 
-Reactor Pressure Vessel safe ends 
-Residual Heat Removal Service Water piping 
in the Reactor 
Building 
Joe Valente 
19 

•  
• 
• 
[lID

Unit 1 Project Scope 
•  Long-Term Passive Component Replacements 
-Drywell coolers 
-Cable tray, conduit, and support installation 
-Pipe hanger installation 
-GE in-vessel inspections 
-Torus coatings 
-Cables 
Joe Valente 
20 

• 
•
• 
ill]

Unit 1 Project Scope 
• Other Modifications I Refurbishments
 
-Control Room Design Review modifications 
-Recirculation pump variable frequency drives 
Digital Electro-Hydraulic Control system 
-Main generator rewind and rotor balanced 
-Close in-fault protection 
in switchyard 
-Common accident signal 
-Reactor Core Isolation Cooling turbine reassembly and upgrade 
-Refueling bridge crane modifications 
-Large pump and motor refurbishment 
-Valve replacement / refurbishment 
Joe Valente 
21 

•  
• 
• 
[II]

Unit 1 Project Scope 
•  Extended Power Uprate 
-Approximately 40 modifications to be discussed later 
•  License Renewal 
-No modifications required 
Joe Valente 
22 

•
 
•
 
•
 

• • • 
System Return to Service Process 
UID 
•  Process to Ensure all Tasks are Completed Prior to Return to
 
Service
 
-Engineering
 
-Maintenance
 
-Modifications
 
-Operations
 
-Licensing
 
•  Same Process as used on Units 2 and 3 
•  Six Systems Returned to Operation 
R. G.  Jones 
23 

• 
•
• 
[lID

System Return to Service Process 
System Plant Acceptance 
Evaluation (SPAE) 
- Modifications 
- Calculations 
- Drawings 
- Corrective Actions 
Maintenance 
- Refurbishments 
- Like for Like replacement 
- Component testing 
Modifications 
- Installation 
- Component Testing 
System Pre-operability 
Checklist (SPOC) Phase I 
r+ 
~ - Maintenance 
- Modifications 
- System Walkdown 
­
- Corrective Actions 
- Drawings 
- Labeling 
- Procedures 
System Pre-operability
 
Checklist (SPOC) Phase 
II
 
system~~ 
perable / ~ 
- Surveillance Testing 
nctional 
- Restart Test Program 
­
- System Walkdown 
em Under 
- Operations Department figuration 
Acceptance 
Control 
R. G. Jones 
24 

•  • 
• 
[II]

Restart Test Program 
•  Purpose -  to Verify that Systems are Capable of Meeting Safe 
Shutdown Requirements for Each Mode 
of Operation as Defined 
by the Safe Shutdown Analysis 
•  Verify Design and Operation 
of Plant are within Licensing Basis 
•  Commitment to NRC to Test Safety Related Modes 
of Systems 
•  Non-safe Shutdown Functions Tested by Post Modification Tests 
I 
Component Tests 
•  Restart Test Program the Same as Performed 
on Units 2 and  3 
•  Significant Oversight 
of Testing by Nuclear Assurance, Restart 
Test Group, Plant Operations Review Committee, Nuclear Safety 
Review Board, and NRC 
R. G.  Jones 
25 

• 
• • 
[II]
High Pressure Coolant Injection 
•  Post Modification Testing, Calibrations, Surveillances
 
-Valve stroking and timing
 
-Leak testi
ng
 
-Component calibrations
 
-Cold quick start
 
-Vessel injection test and tuning
 
•  Restart Test Program Requirements Based on System Modes 
-Automatic High Pressure Coolant Injection system initiation on low water level 
or high drywell pressure. Includes auto transfer from condensate storage tank 
to suppression pool and verification 
of turbine stop valve closure on high 
reactor water level and that subsequent low water level will open stop valve. 
-Verify system minimum flow rate 
on auto initiation signal 
-Verify minimum flow bypass valve function and flow 
-Close High Pressure Coolant Injection steam supply 
on isolation signals 
R. G.  Jones 
26 

• 
• 
• 
Reactor Water Cleanup  
UID 
•  Post Modification Testing, Calibrations, Surveillances 
-Functional testing of Reactor Water Cleanup pump interlocks 
-Valve stroking and timing 
-Local leak rate testing 
-Component calibrations 
•  Restart Test Program Requirements Based on System Modes 
-Close isolation valves on Primary Containment Isolation signal 
-Close isolation valves 
on Standby Liquid Control Initiation 
-Close isolation valves 
on high area temperature signal 
R. G.  Jones 
27 

• 
• 
• 
Feedwater  
rm 
•  Post Modification Testing, Calibrations, Surveillances 
- Functional test and tuning of Digital Feedwater Control system
 
Functional test of reactor feedwater pumps and turbines
 
Functional test 
of zinc passivation system
 
Component calibrations
 
System leak test
 
Valve test for instrument line excess flow check valves
 
•  Restart Test Program Requirements Based on System Modes 
-Verify pressure and water level signals to Reactor Protection System, 
Emergency Core Cooling Systems, Primary Containment Isolation System, 
Main Steam System, Feedwater Control System (main turbine and feedwater 
turbine trip), Recirculation System (Anticipated Transient Without Scram 
I 
Alternate Rod Injection), Diesel Generator start, and Automatic 
Depressurization System
 
-System piping vibration test at full power
 
R. G.  Jones 
28 

• • • 
Integrated/Power Ascension Test Program lIm
 
• Phase 1 Testing 
-Source Range Monitor and Intermediate Range Monitor testing 
-Control Rod Drive testing 
-Containment integrated leak testing 
-Reactor Pressure Vessel hydrostatic testing 
-High Pressure Coolant Injection and Reactor Core Isolation Cooling 
runs 
on auxiliary boiler 
-Backup control panel testing 
• Management Assessment of Test Results with Plant Operations 
Review Committee and Plant Manager Approval Prior to 
Proceeding 
R. G. Jones 
29 

• • • 
Integrated/Power Ascension Test Program mJ
 
•  Phase 2 Testing « 55% Power) 
- Initial criticality and shutdown margin testing 
Source Range Monitor and Intermediate Range Monitor overlap 
Thermal expansion walk downs 
Reactor feedwater pumps overspeed testing and balancing 
High Pressure Coolant Injection and Reactor Core Isolation Cooling testing 
Safety relief valve cycling 
Electrohydraulic control tuning 
I testing 
Turbine roll 
I balancing 
Core thermal limits 
I computer testing 
Local Power Range Monitor calibrations 
Average Power Range Monitor calibrations 
Scram time testing 
Reactor scram 
•  Management Assessment of Test Results with Plant Operations Review 
Committee and Plant Manager Approval Prior to Proceeding 
R. G.  Jones 
30 

• • • 
Integrated/Power Ascension Test Program UID
 
• Phase 3 Testing (55% to 830/0) 
-Reactor Feedwater Pump tuning / testing 
-Recirculation pump variable frequency drive tuning / testing 
-Electrohydraulic control tuning / testing 
-Recirculation flow calibration 
-High Pressure Coolant Injection and Reactor Core Isolation Cooling 
vessel injection and tuning 
-Recirculation pump variable frequency drive runback test 
• Management Assessment of Test Results with Plant Operations 
Review Committee and Plant Manager Approval Prior to 
Proceeding 
R. G. Jones 
31 

• • • 
Integrated/Power Ascension Test Program UID
 
•  Phase 4 Testing (83% to 100%) 
•  Performed 
in Plateaus of 2% to 50/0 
•  Management Assessment at Each Plateau with Plant Operations Review 
Committee and Plant Manager Approval Prior to Proceeding 
•  Consists 
of the Following Testing at Each Plateau 
-Core power distribution 
-Pressure Regulator testing 
-Feedwater System testing 
-Process computer -  heat balance and thermal limits verification 
-Reactor Vessel Water Level verification 
-Drywell Atmosphere Cooling System 
-Reactor Building Closed Cooling Water and Raw Cooling Water System 
monitoring 
-Radiation level monitoring 
-Reactor Pressure 
Vessell Feedwater Chemistry monitoring 
-Off gas release monitoring 
-Main Steam Line moisture content monitoring 
-Main Steam, Feedwater, and Recirculation piping vibration monitoring 
R. G.  Jones 
32 

• 
• 
Large Scale Transient Testing 
• 
mil 
•  No Large Transient Testing to be Performed
 
-System functions I actuations tested by comprehensive component
 
and system testing
 
-Large scale transient system effects essentially decayed prior to
 
mitigating system actuations
 
- Large scale transient at operating conditions not as severe as 
licensing basis analytical transients 
•  Minimal Benefit from Test does not Justify the Risk 
Bill Crouch 
33 

•
 
en 
E 
• 
-
(])

......, 
L­
(]) 
..c
......, 
0 
•
 
C) 
c 
~ 
eo 
+-' 
en
 
+-' 
c 
:::J 
Q) 
Q) 
L­
..c 
l­
•
 
en 
L­
0 
+-' 
eo
-

:::J 
.-
E
 
en
 
•
 
c 
0 
~ 
eo 
L­
eo 
c.. 
Q) 
en 
+-'
.­
c 
:::J 
en 
Q) 
• 
s:: 
...., 
<.9 
0:: 
0 

•
 
•
 
•
 

• 
• 
License Renewal  
• 
IIID 
•  Units 1, 2, and 3 License Renewal Application Submitted 
December 
31 , 2003 
•  License Renewal Application at Current Licensed Thermal Power 
for each Unit 
•  License Renewal Application Consistent with Generic Aging 
Lessons Learned 
•  License Renewal Application Results 
in 39 Aging Management 
Programs 
Rich  Delong 
35 

• 
• 
Status  
• 
iiID 
•  Application Submitted on December 31, 2003 
-Requests for additional information: 
o  Total: 230 
o For Unit 1: 30
 
-Draft SER with open items issued on August 9, 2005
 
o  01-2.4-3 (Section 2.4 - Drywell Shell Corrosion) 
o  01-4.7.7 (Section 4.7.7 - Stress Relaxation of the Core Plate Hold-Down 
Bolts) -  TVA letter dated September 
6, 2005 
Rich Delong 
36 

License Renewal 
•  
•
• 
IIID
 
Aging Management Programs 
•  39 Aging Management Programs Total
 
-38 are common to Units 1, 2, and 3
 
-1 is for only Unit 1 (i.e., Unit 1 Periodic Inspection Program)
 
•  12 Existing Aging Management Programs Require no Enhancement Since 
Consistent with Generic Aging Lessons Learned 
•  10 Existing Aging Management Programs Require Enhancing for all Units 
in Order to Comply with Generic Aging Lessons Learned 
•  
11 Existing Aging Management Programs Revised to Include Unit 1. 
Already Consistent with Generic Aging Lessons Learned 
•  6 New Aging Management Programs 
Rich  Delong 
37 

• 
•
• 
License Renewal 
UID 
Aging Management Programs 
•  Existing Aging Management Programs Requiring No Enhancement 
-10 CFR 50 Appendix J Program 
-Above ground Carbon Steel Tanks Program 
-ASME Section 
XI Inservice Inspection Subsections IWB, IWC, and 
IWD Program 
-ASME Section 
XI Subsection IWE Program 
-ASME Section 
XI Subsection IWF Program 
-Bolting Integrity Program 
-BWR Control Rod Drive Return Line Nozzle Program 
-Diesel Starting Air Program 
-Fuel Oil Chemistry Program 
-Inspection 
of Overhead Heavy Load  and Light Load Handling Systems 
Program
 
-Reactor Head Closure Studs Program
 
-Systems Monitoring Program
 
Rich Delong 
38 

• 
•
• 
License Renewal 
UID 
Aging Management Programs 
•  Existing Aging Management Programs Requiring Enhancement in 
Order to Comply with Generic Aging Lessons Learned (All Units) 
-Buried Piping and Tanks Inspection Program 
BWR Vessel Internals Program 
Compressed Air Monitoring Program 
Electrical cables not subject to 10 CFR 50.49 Environmental 
Qualification requirements used 
in Instrumentation Circuits Program 
Fatigue Monitoring Program
 
Fire Water System Program
 
Inspection 
of Water-Control Structures Program
 
Masonry Wall Program
 
Reactor Vessel Surveillance Program
 
Structures Monitoring Program
 
Rich Delong 39 

License Renewal 
•  
•
•
mil
 
Aging Management Programs 
•  Existing Aging Management Programs Consistent with Generic 
Aging Lessons Learned Requiring Revision to Incorporate Unit 1 
-BWR Feedwater Nozzle Program 
BWR Penetrations Program 
BWR Reactor Water Cleanup System Program 
BWR Stress Corrosion Cracking Program 
BWR Vessel Inside Diameter Attachment Welds Program 
Chemistry Control Program 
Closed-Cycle Cooling Water System Program 
Compressed Air Monitoring Program 
Environmental Qualification Program 
Flow-Accelerated Corrosion Program
 
Open-Cycle Cooling Water System Program
 
Rich Delong 40 

• 
•
License Renewal 
• 
[il] 
Aging Management Programs 
• New Aging Management Programs (for all Three Units) 
-Accessible Non-Environmental Qualification Cables and Connections 
Inspection Program 
-Bus Inspection Program 
-Inaccessible medium voltage cables not subject to 10 CFR 50.49 
Environmental Qualification Requirements Program 
-One-Time Inspection Program 
-Selective Leaching 
of Materials Program 
• New Aging Management Program (Unit 1 Only) 
-Unit 1 Periodic Inspection Program 
Rich Delong 41 

• • • 
In]
Unit 1 Periodic Inspection Program 
•  Targeted Unit 1 Periodic Inspections will be Performed after Unit 1 
is  Returned to Operation to Verify Aging Management Program 
Effectiveness for Piping that was not Replaced and to Verify no 
Additional Aging Effects are Occurring 
•  The Targeted Periodic Inspection Sample Locations will be a 
Subset 
of Non-Replaced Piping Locations Inspected for Restart 
•  The Periodic Inspections will be Performed Prior to Period 
of 
Extended Operation 
Rich Delong 
42 

• 
• 
Appendix F (Unit 1 Differences) 
• 
iIID 
•  The Basic TVA Principle for the Unit 1 Restart is that all Three BFN
 
Units will be Operationally Identical upon Completion 
of Unit 1
 
Restart Activities
 
•  To Meet this Principle, the Unit 1 Current Licensing Basis at
 
Restart to be the Same as the Current Licensing Basis 
of Units 2
 
and 3
 
•  Appendix F to the License Renewal Application Describes the
 
Differences Between Unit 1 and Units 2 and 3
 
•  These Differences will be Eliminated Prior to Unit 1 Restart 
Rich  Delong 
43 

• 
• 
• 
Appendix F (Unit 1 Differences) 
rm 
•  Appendix F Delineates 13 Areas of Difference
 
-Main Steam Isolation Valve alternate leakage treatment
 
-Containment Atmosphere Dilution System modifications
 
-Fire Protection Program
 
-Environmental Qualification Program
 
-Intergranular Stainless Steel Stress Corrosion Cracking
 
-BWRVIP Inspection and Flaw Evaluation Guidelines implementation
 
-Anticipated Transients Without Scram
 
-Reactor Vessel Head Spray removal
 
-Hardened Wetwell Vent
 
-Service Air and Demineralized Water Primary Containment
 
Penetrations
 
-Auxiliary Decay Heat Removal System
 
-Maintenance Rule implementation
 
-Reactor Water Cleanup System
 
Rich Delong 
44 

• 
• 
• 
Operating Experience  
rm 
•  10CFR54.17(c): 
An application for a renewed license may not be submitted to 
the Commission earlier than 20 years before the expiration 
of 
the operating license currently in effect. 
• Unit 1 Met This Requirement 
•  License Renewal Statement 
of Considerations (1991)
 
-Provides the basis for the 20 years
 
-Operating Experience not limited 
to that of the License Renewal
 
Applicant 
-Regulatory history demonstrates that 20 years of plant specific 
Operating Experience not required by NRC 
Joe McCarthy 
45 

• 
• 
Operating Experience 
• 
fiID 
• License Renewal Statement of Considerations 
-NRC indicated willingness to consider plant specific exemptions for 
application seeking license renewal prior to 20 years before license 
expires 
• Schedular Exemptions Granted by the NRC to 10 CFR 54.17(c) 
-Progressive expansion of scope of Operating Experience justification 
for such exemptions 
o Reliance on Operating Experience of sister units, other utilities' similar 
units, and industry wide experience 
Joe McCarthy 
46 

•
 
•
 
•
 

• 
• 
Operating Experience  
• 
1m 
•  Unit 1 has 10 Years of Operation 
•  Unit 2 and Unit 3 Operating Experience is Applicable to Unit 1 
•  Unit 3 Shutdown for 10 Years 
-Extensive layup experience with Unit 3 directly applicable to Unit 1 
-No post-layup aging effects during 10 years 
of ensuing operation 
•  Layup Experience from Unit 3 Incorporated into Unit 1 Recovery 
-RHR service water 
-Small bore piping 
•  Unit 1's  Design, Configuration, Operating Procedures, Technical 
Specifications, and Updated Final Safety Analysis Report Identical 
to Unit 2 and Unit 3 
•  Unit 1's  Licensing  Basis will be the same as that 
of Unit 2 and
 
Unit 3 at Restart (Appendix F)
 
•  Unit 1 Periodic Inspection Program 
47
Joe McCarthy 

• 
•
Extended Power Uprate Impact 
• 
IlID
on License Renewal 
•  Extended Power Uprate Applications Prepared Using GE's 
Extended Power Uprate Licensing Topical Reports (ELTR1 and 
ELTR2) 
•  Submittals Provided Information Requested in NRC RS-001 , 
"Review Standard For Power Uprates," Issued December 2003 
•  Included Information to Address Request for Additional Information 
Received on Other Plant Dockets 
•  BFN Unit 1 -GE14 Fuel 
•  BFN Units 2 and 3 -FANP 
A-1 0 Fuel 
Bill Crouch 
48 

• 
•
• 
[lID

BFN Extended Power Uprate 
, 
BFN Unit 1 BFN Units 2 & 3 
Original Thermal Power 3293 MWt 3293 MWt 
Current Thermal Power 3293 MWt 
3458 MWt (5%) Uprate) 
Requested Thermal Power 3952 MWt 3952 MWt 
RPV Pressure 
30 psi increase No change (30 psi increase 
with prior 
5°,10 uprate) 
Operations 
Operationally the same upon implementation of Extended 
Power Uprate 
in all three units. 
Bill Crouch 
49 

• 
•
• 
[lID

Modifications Overview 
HP Turbine 
Upgrade moisture separator internals 
modifications to 
for moisture removal effeciency. 
accommodate 
Steam Dryer 
Replaced main 
additional steam flow 
modifications 
, increased flow. 
Added an 
additional 
demineralizer. 
~~ 
, 
Moisture Separators/ 
Ii n 
Feedwater 
Heaters 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
Pump 
bank and spare 
transformers 
and iso-duct 
Recirc. pump 
cooling. 
motor re-rate 
\ 
Substation 
Upgrades 
Main 
Generator 
rewind 
Condensate 
demineralizers 
Condensate 
modified to 
Demineralizers 
accommodate 
Feedwater
 
Heaters
 
/ 
~ 
Feedwater heaters 
modified due to 
Feedwater Pump and Turbine modifications to 
accommodate increased flow 
Condensate and condensate booster pump / motor 
modifications 
to accommodate increased flow 
increased pump 
discharge pressure 
and flow 
Bill Crouch 
50 

• • • 
System Effects for Normal Operation 
fiID
 
System Parameter Increases 
Main Steam Steam Flow, Moisture Content 
Extraction Steam 
Steam Flow, Moisture Content 
Heater Drains and Vents Liquid Flow, Steam Flow 
Condensate 
Liquid / Steam Flow, Pressure 
Feedwater 
Liquid Flow, Pressure 
Recirculation 
Flow, Pump Motor Electrical Load 
Primary Containment / Drywell Coolers Heat Load 
Electrical Distribution 
Electrical Output 
Electrical Supply Electrical Load 
Iso-phase Bus 
Air Flow 
Reactor Vessel 
Steam Flow 
Personnel and Equipment Dose Rates 
Dose Rate 
•  No New Aging Management Programs Required to Monitor or 
Manage These Effects 
Bill Crouch 
51 

• • • 
System Effects for Normal Operation 
UID
 
• Summary 
-Impact of Extended Power Uprate monitored by existing Aging 
Management Programs such as Flow Accelerated Corrosion Program 
-Extended Power Uprate submittal has been accepted by NRC staff for 
review with target approval date 
in Spring 2007 
-ACRS review 
of Extended Power Uprate as part of Extended Power 
Uprate submittal and will consider impact 
on License Renewal 
Bill Crouch 
52 

•
 
•
 
•
 

• 
• 
Summary  
• 
iIID 
•  Three Major NRC Approval Issues 
-License Renewal at current power 
-Extended Power Uprate 
-Unit 1 restart 
•  Plan for Integration of the Three Issues Coordinated with NRC Staff 
•  ACRS Approval Needed for License Renewal Application and Extended 
Power Uprate 
•  NRC Staff Approval Required for Unit 1 Restart, License Renewal 
Application, Extended Power Uprate 
•  Final NRC Approval Required for Unit 1 Restart (NRR and Region 
II 
Administrator) 
Bill Crouch 53 

TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
 
BROWNS FERRY NUCLEAR PLANT
 
DESCRIPTION OF MODIFICATIONS
 
PLANNED FOR UNIT 1 RESTART
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SEPTEMBER 21, 2005
 

Description of Modifications Planned for Unit 1 Restart 
Main Steam 
Provide a seismically rugged alternative leakage treatment (ALT) path for MSIV leakage during a postulated LOCA. 
y 
DCN 51112 
Main Steam Add capability to place a standby Steam Jet 
Air Ejector (SJAE) into service from Unit 1 Control Room. Replace various 
y 
DCN 51136 
instruments including Main Steam Line pressure transmitters, High Pressure (HP) Turbine 1st stage pressure 
transmitters, HP and Low Pressure (LP) Steam Flow Transmitters to Reactor Feedwater Pump Turbines, Steam 
Pressure Indicators to the Steam Jet 
air Ejectors (SJAEs), Control Valve Steam Chest Pressure Transmitter, Main 
Steam (MS) Header Pressure Transmitter, Steam Seal Header Pressure Transmitter, High Pressure Turbine Exhaust 
Pressure Transmitter, and Steam Pressure to Low Pressure Turbine A Transmitter. Replace Main Steam Line Tunnel 
Leak Detection Temperature Switches with new switches including EQ quick disconnects to prevent moisture intrusion. 
Install mounting brackets and supports for linear variable differential transformers (LVDTs) used to monitor steady­
state vibration 
of MS piping outside containment during power ascension up to Extended Power Uprate conditions. 
Provide addition of Auxiliary Boiler steam supply to (SJAE) pressure switches (1-PS-012-80A 
& -80B), add root valves 
for new pressure switches, and add inter10cks from Auxiliary Steam to SJAE shutoff valves. 

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
:::::::::::::::" 
I···· 
~lL~. 
Main Steam 
Modify and update the four inboard MSIVs by providing new poppet design, new larger stem, new bonnet, new bolting 
y 
DCN 51143 
design, new larger actuator, spring housing modification, adapter plate for solenoid control panel, new limit switches
 
(LS-1 & LS-5), and redesigned switch mounting plate to support EPU. Adjust inboard MSIV position limit switch (LS-5)
 
from the 90% open position to the 85% open position per General Electric Service Information Letter (GE SIL) 568.
 
Replace Main Steam Drain Isolation Valve (MSDIV) FCV-1-55, with an equivalent Flowserve valve due to higher
 
leakage trends in Local Leak Rate Tests (LLRTs). Replace the MSDIV motor actuator with a new environmentally
 
qualified motor (GL 89-10). Replace 
(4) Main steam Relief Valve (MSRV) bodies with new bodies and new pilot
 
assemblies. Install nine new pilot assemblies on existing bodies. Replace threaded couplings with socket welded
 
couplings in MSRV tailpipes 
and install new temperature elements in new welded thermowells. Replace existing Main
 
Steam (MS) System cables with new Class 1E and 10CFR50.49 (EO) qualified cables between the Electrical
 
Penetration Assemblies (EPA) and the Main Steam System components (inboard MSIV limit switches, MSRV pressure
 
control valves and thermocouples, and MSDIV motor actuator and limit switches). Six (6) of the thirteen (13) Main
 
Steam Relief Valves (MSRVs) are associated with the Automatic Depressurization System (ADS) portion 
of the Main
 
Steam (MS) System (1-PCV-1-5, -19,  -22, -30, -31, 
and -34). Re-Iabel conduiUcables associated with the ADS MSRVs
 
with the 'IS1' suffix. (Cable/conduit associated with the High Pressure Coolant Injection (HPCI) System will be labeled
 
with the 'IS2' suffix per DCN 51150.) Calculation ED-00001-920589, (Division I Cables ReqUiring Separation to
 
Maintain HPCI-ADS Independence Plus Significant ADS Modifications) has been issued to support this change.
 
Replace the mechanical portion 
of the Standby Liquid Control (SLC) system inside the drywell consisting of (4) valves
 
(1-SHV-63-12, -538, -539, 
& 1-CKV-63-526).
 
Main Steam 
Replace equivalent MSRV acoustic monitors, acoustic monitor charge converters, cables, conduit, and junction boxes. 
y 
DCN 51162 
Replace equivalent inboard MSIV control valve manifold assemblies. Addition 
of cables/conduit for limit switches 
added per DCN 51143. 
Main Steam 
Modify and update the four outboard MSIVs by providing new poppet design, new larger stem, new bonnet, new bolting 
y 
DCN 51173 
design, new larger actuator, spring housing modification, adapter plate for solenoid control panel, and redesigned
 
switch mounting plate. Replace Main Steam Drain Isolation Valve (MSDIV) FCV-1-56 with 
an equivalent valve due to
 
higher leakage trends in Local Leak Rate Tests (LLRTs). Replace the MSDIV motor actuator with a new
 
environmentally qualified motor (GL 89-10). Replace Control Air flex hoses for MSIVs 1-FCV-1-15, 27, 38, 
& 52.
 
Provide live-loaded packing for outboard MSIVs and MSDV. Leak-off taps are deleted from new MSIV bonnet design.
 
-2­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
SYst~hj 
'.:.:::::,:.~: , ....~. 
.:<.:: :::.:.:: ","''''lIfl':::::::.::
.:::-.:.<:-:>...:...::,;.. , 
Main Steam 
DCN 51211 
Remove the Unit 1 outboard MSDIV local control station. Replace cable 
any area 
of the plant. Replace cable and conduit in the Reactor Building associated with the MSRV acoustic 
Replace cable and conduit in the Reactor Building associated with the Main St
Leak Detectors with 
new Class 1E and 10CFR50.49 (EO) cable. 
R
Reactor Building associated with the outboard MSIV solenoid valves with 
new Class 1E and 10CFR50.49 (EO) c
a
o
LS-4, see DCN 51162). Replace cables 
for the MSIV Drain Interlock circuit and reroute cables from a Div II Elec
Penetration Assembly (EPA) to a Div I EPA. 
and conduit in  the Reactor BUilding associated with the MSRV solenoid valves with new Class 1E and 10CFR50.
(EO) cable.  Modify control switch locations to ensure required numbers 
of ADS SRVs are available in  case of 
monitoring with new Class 1E and 10CFR50.49 (EO) cable. Delete temperature sensors TS-1-17A, -17B, 17C, 
from main steam tunnel vault. 
eplace all safety-related limit switches associated with the outboard MSIVs. Replace cable and conduit in the 
nd splices. Replace cable and conduit in the Reactor Building associated with the inboard and outboard MSIV 
able 
pen/close limit switches with new Class 1E and 10CFR50.49 (EO) cable (for inboard MSIV limit switches LS-3 and 
trical 
fire in 
eam Line 
y 
,.~F . 
~ 
49 
& -17D 
Main Steam 
DCN 51230 
Equivalent replacement 
of each Main Steam Line Flow transmitter. Procure and qualify Iike-for-Iike outboard 
open/close control valve manifolds. Equivalent replacement 
of each Main Steam line high flow transmitter. Li
like replacement 
of Main Steam instruments located in the Reactor Building. 
MSIV 
ke­for­
y 
Main Steam 
DCN 51333 
P
HPCI systems (from respective flow element to Penetrations X-30A, -B, -C, -D, X-32E 
& F, X-34-A, -B, -C, & -D). 
rovide additions and modifications to the small bore instrument piping supports inside Drywell for Main Steam and 
y 
Main Steam 
DCN 51408 
P
M
anels in the Reactor Building) 
rovide additions and modifications to the small bore instrument piping supports inside the Reactor Building for t
ain Steam System (from Drywell Penetrations X-30A, -B, -C, -D, X-32E 
& F, X-34-A. -B, -C, & -D to the 
he 
y 
instrument 
Main Steam 
R
p
emove Moisture Separator Drain Pumps (MSDPs) and modify the Heater Drain System to operate without MSDPs. 
y 
DCN 51458 
Clear MSDP room 
of Heater Drain piping. Tap off of condensate booster 
Water supply and return piping to the MSDP room. Remove handswitches and indication for MSDPs from ma
board. Remove the closing feature 
of the flow control valves when the reactor feedwater to the associated high 
pressure feedwater heaters is manually 
or automatically isolated. 
Upgrade internals 
of each moisture separator to increase capacity and increase moisture removal efficiency fr
to at least 95% at EPU conditions. 
discharge header to supply injection water to each drain from the moisture separators. Cut and cap Raw Coolin
pump 
in control 
om 85% 
g 
-3­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I 
Main Steam 
DCN 60534 
Implementation 
of MSRV auto actuation logic (will be safety-related on Unit 1). 
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51113 
Provide a drainage path from the reactor well to the condensate storage tanks when the condenser is out 
of service 
(GE SIL 427). Provide for oxygen injection into the Condensate System from the Hydrogen 
Water Chemistry System 
at suction piping 
of each condensate pump (GE SIL 136). Upgrade condensate demineralizer precoat pump seal 
equipment to improve pump seal operation. Add precoat inlet and outlet line pressure gauges to improve 
demineralizer precoat operation. Provide for hydrogen injection into the Condensate System from the Hydrogen 
Water 
Chemistry System into each condensate booster pump suction drain piping. Change valves 1-FCV-2-29A and 1-FCV­
2-29B from "fail open" to "fail closed". Change system design conditions for temperature and pressure to support new 
booster pump pressures at EPU conditions. Modify Condensate pump inlet piping with T-section spool piece to 
accommodate pump suction strainers. Feedwater heaters A3, B3, and C3 and associated piping are re-rated, and the 
manway opening for Feedwater Heater C3 is reinforced to support new design pressure at EPU conditions. 
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51137 
Replace the Condensate Demineralizer Control Panel from existing analog to a new Digital Programmable Logic 
Control (PLC) panel and provide control capability 
for 10 vessels. 
Provide primary and altemate 120Vac power to the 
new panel via separate 480 V feeds, 480/120Vac distribution 
transformers, and 
an automatic transfer switch. 
Replace 27 existing transmitters with "smart" transmitters and replace associated flow elements. (EPU) 
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51174 
Modify Condensate/Demineralized Water System piping inside Reactor Building as follows: Remove the 20"X24" 
y­
connection, anchor the 20" return line, install a blind flange on the 20" carbon steel header, and reconstruct the 24" 
header. The Demineralizer Water supply line to the drywell is cut and capped downstream 
of SHV-2·1191 and cut and 
plugged upstream 
of Penetration X-20. 
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51294 
Provide for the retubing 
of the Main Condenser in the Turbine Building. Material substitution only of tubing from brass 
to stainless steel. 
y 
-4­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
IS~steml~~I> 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51335 
.­
Modify the support configuration 
for a portion of the Condensate Storage and Supply System piping outside the dr
in the Reactor Building. 
well y
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51344 
Provide for modifications and additions to existing supports for a small portion of the Condensate Storage and Su
System piping in the Reactor Building (branch HPCI Pump Test line connecting to Condensate Supply System pip
pp
in
ly 
g). 
y 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51463 
Upgrade the Condensate Demineralizer System air surge backwash system by adding quick-action type valves and 
upgraded compressors. This will result in higher tank pressures and improved air surge valve operating times. 
Crosstie capability for Unit 1 to Unit 2 backwash air systems is provided with the addition 
of manual valve 1-SHV-2­
850A. 
y 
Reactor 
Provide equivalent replacement and addition 
of cables as a result of design/programs. Revise setpoint and scaling 
y 
Feedwater 
calculations applying the effects 
of EPU. 24-month fuel cycle, and hydrogen water chemistry. Increase setpoint of 
DCN 51076 
instrumentation associated with reactor steam dome pressure. Extend channel calibration and logic system functi
test frequencies to 24-months. Lower the Reactor Vessel 
Water Level -Low, Level 3 setpoint. 
nal o
Reactor 
Replace valves FCV-3-75, 
76,77, and others due to their stellite content. Replace sample probe and valve SMV­3­549 
y 
Feedwater 
per GE SIL 257. Install mounting brackets and supports for linear variable differential transformers (LVDTs) used to 
DCN 51114 
monitor steady-state vibration of Feedwater (FW) piping outside containment during power ascension up to Exten
Power Uprate conditions. Delete stem leak off valves LOV-3-540, 543, 
& 548 from valves FCV-3-71, 72. & 73 
respectively and replace stem packing with Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)-style packing. Replace 12 
obsolete Hancock globe valves. Install a 
GE zinc injection passivation system to reduce Cobalt-60 bUild-up in pip
systems where condensate water is utilized. 
d
in
ed 
g 
-5­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I>' 
••.•• (,~q~) 
-<0;1 ~; .. 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
DCN 51163 
R
r
l
R
w
p~~~~~~~~~g 
eplace Reactor Vessel  Level Indicating System (RVLlS) reference and sensing lines (four each) to provide more 
eliable measurement (GL 84-23 and NUREG-0737, Item II.F.2). Replace Reactor Head Seal Leakoff reservoir line, 
evel switch, and reservoir isolation and drain valves. Replace Reactor Head Vent sensing line and flow control valves. 
eplace Reactor Vessel Main Feedwater inboard isolation valve closed limit switches. Install 
FW piping vibration 
monitoring equipment permanent mounting hardware. Replace double vent and drain small bore valves associated 
ith Reactor Vessel Main Feedwater inboard isolation valves. 
y 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
DCN 51231 
R
r
l
c
2
v
elocate sensing lines associated with penetrations 17A, 178, 26A, & 
268 from penetrations 28A, 280, 29A, & 290 
espectively. Rework sensing lines due to slope concerns and separation of functionally redundant lines for various 
evel instrument loops (of 10 sensing lines involved, 5 are being re-routed and 5 are being reworked). Two new 6-inch, 
ore-bore penetrations are required. Penetrations X-28A, X-28D, X-29A, & X-29D are to be capped. Refurbish panels 
5-5A, 
58, 5C, 50, 5-1, 6A, 68, 6C, 60, and 6-1, to include replacement of drain valves, isolation valves, equalization 
alves, quick-connect fittings, and tubing. Add new panel 25-426 to house LT-3-206 & 207. 
y 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
DCN 63792 
Provide separate power supplies to 
U1 RFP min-flow valve control circuits. 
y 
H2 Water 
Chemistry 
DCN 51115 
I
s
v
p
(
c
nstall a Hydrogen Water Chemistry (HWC) system to reduce intergranular stress corrosion cracking (IGSCC) 
of 
tainless steel components in the reactor coolant recirculation piping and lower reactor internals. Relocate Unit 2 
alves 2-SHV-66-.1135 and 1136 which are currently located in Unit 
1. Remove existing Offgas hydrogen analyzer 
anels, associated Offgas sample tubing, Service Air tubing, Demineralizer water tubing, and sample cooler. Install 
Offgas monitor panel, sample supply/return piping, supports, and valves. Install four hydrogen area monitor sensors 
HAMS) to detect hydrogen leakage. Install Offgas calibration gas supply tubing, valves, and interconnecting wiring, 
onduit, and pull boxes. 
y 
-6­

~------------------------------------------------------~---­
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
!pd~l<
I<>:';;;:~·<· 
I 
Heater Drains 
and Vents 
DCN51116 
Heater Drains 
and Vents 
DCN 51139 
y 
(Note: DCN 51464 replaces the associated shell side heater relief valves.) Replace six heater level control valves 
including operators, positioners, and pressure regulators to prevent unacceptable modulation 
of water levels (1-LCV-6­
11A, -29A, -47A, -14A, -32A, -50A). Replace Number 3 Feedwater heater level control valves with valves that do not 
incorporate a fluid-filled stem snubber (1-LCV-6-7, -25, 
& -43). [EPU: Replace 4-inch moisture separator level control 
valves with 6-inch valves and new operators and positioners (1-LCV-6-62A. -628. -73A, -73B. -84A, -848). Expansion 
joints (bellows) 
in the No.2. 3, 4, and 5 extraction steam piping located inside the condenser are being replaced with 
stainless steel expansion joints 
to address flow-accelerated corrosion]. Replace level control valves including 
actuators and positioners (1-LCV-6-1, -19, -37, -4A, -4B, -22A, -22B, -40A, -40B, 
-11 B, -29B, -47B, -14B, -32B, -SOB). 
Replace 4-inch moisture separator level bypass to condenser level control valves with 6-inch valves and new 
operators, local positioners, and limit switches (1-LCV-6-61A, -61B. -72A, -72B, -83A, -838). Replace packing 
for 
various valve stems with graphite ring packing as described in EPRI Report NP-5967. 
Replace six tube side heater relief valves and modify piping such that valve inlets are mounted in the vertical direction. 
y
Provide 
for refurbishment of Reactor Feedwater heaters as follows: Addition of electronic level switches, addition of 
control cables from level switches to the associated heater extraction isolation valve, and addition of associated level 
transmitters. Existing glass level gauges are replaced with all metal gauges and test valves are added. Root valves 
and their instrument level piping from their connection points on respective heaters are replaced with stainless steel 
components. Replace existing condensate chambers with new chambers possessing approximately five times greater 
volume than presently installed chambers capacities. 
-7­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
l§ystetl1~h~ ­
I .• ><9h~?g~/ 
Control Bay
 
Panels
 
DCN 51094
 
DCN 51095
 
DCN 51096
 
DCN 51097
 
DCN 51098
 
DCN 51099
 
DCN 51100
 
DCN 51101
 
DCN 51103
 
DCN 51104
 
DCN 51105
 
DCN 51106
 
DCN 51108
 
DCN 51109
 
DCN 51077
 
DCN 51111
 
~~iglr 
Iiii',; 
Summary of changes to PNLs1-9-3, -4,:-5, -6, -7, -8, -10, ·18, -19,  -20, -21,  -22, -32,  -33,  -47, -53, -54, -55,1-25-32 to I 
resolve Control Room Design Review (CRDR) issues: 
Multiple component relocations within, to, and from other Control Room panels. Multiple indicator replacements as a 
result 
of loop signal changes and indicator obsolescence. Multiple indicating scale modifications to adhere to Human 
Engineering Standards. Installation of new component labels and switch escutcheon plates. Installation 
of new 
system mimics. Panel surface enhancements. Replacement 
of obsolete recorders with Westronics digital paperless 
recorders. Replacement 
of the HPCI and RCIC controllers and power supplies. Relocation of the Acoustic Monitoring 
System from panel 1-9-47 to panel 1-9-3. Installation of the Containment Isolation Status System (CISS) initiation and 
success indicators. Replacement 
of Recirculation Pump speed indicators with grouped pushbuttons and status lamps. 
Replacement of handswitches associated with the lube oil pumps that control Recirculation Drive Cooling Pumps. 
Replacement and recalibration 
of Condensate Pump and Condensate Booster Pump monitoring instrumentation. 
Delete redundant U2 
and U3 electrical distribution controls that do not support Unit 1 operations. Installation of a new 
fiber optic Local Area Network (LAN) throughout the Main Control Room (MCR), connecting all MCR process recorders 
to a recorder host PC. Install controls and indication to support the new Hydrogen Water Chemistry system. Relocate 
all System 02, Condensate and Demineralized Water, (Condensate Storage and Transfer portion) controls, indicators, 
and meters from panel 1-9-20 to panel 1-9-22. Provide new indication for Fire Protection Header Pressure. Remove 
Circulating Water Traveling Screen Speed Indications. Provide new Standby Gas Treatment outlet flow indication. 
Remove Standby Gas Treatment Train operability indication. Deletion of IRM, APRM, RBM, & SRM selector switches. 
Removal 
of the annunciation for the Rod Sequence Control System. Removal of Core Spray System Testable check 
valves, indications, and controls. Removal 
of Residual Heat Removal (RHR) System Testable check valves, 
indications, and controls. Removal 
ofthe Primary Containment Isolation System (PCIS) Group 7, HPCI and RCIC 
valve indication from the PCIS mimic. Installation of equipment associated with the Hardened Wetwell Vent 
modification. Support activities for the annunciators, Common Accident Signal (CAS), and Unit 2 CAS. Upgrade 
analog flow controllers to digital loop controllers (1-FIC-84-19 
& -20). Remove, replace, relocate, abandon power 
supplies and flow instrumentation for RHR, Core Spray, and RHR Service Water. 
~!~» 
Y 
-8­

71 
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
···l"~'/'· ···/1 
~Z!lt~<t<·· 
~ 
y
 
and Vents
 
Boiler Drains 
Provide modifications for the Main Steam Relief Valve discharge piping located 
in the drywell from the (13) MSRVs to 
the impingement barner. Replace existing mechanical snubbers with new mechanical snubbers. 
DCN 51065 
y
 
and Vents
 
Boiler Drains 
Provide additions and modifications to the supports for the Reactor Head Vent and Reactor Bottom Head Drain piping 
located in the drywell. Provide for the addition 
of one new snubber to the Reactor Head Vent piping. 
DCN 51067 
y
 
and Vents
 
Boiler Drains 
Remove RPV low point drain valves (1-10-503, -504) and associated piping. Replace existing RPV drain line isolation 
globe valve (1-10-505) with a gate valve. Replace existing RPV head vent drain globe valves (1-10-500, -501, -502)
 
DCN 51144
 
due to obsolescence and leak potential. Replace some sections 
of RPV head vent piping with new piping of upgraded 
material and schedule to reduce pipe stresses and minimize the number 
of pipe supports. Upgrade Main Steam Relief 
Valve (MSRV) discharge pipe 1O-inch vacuum breaker valves. 
y 
Oil 
Install unit isolation valves between Unit 1 and the common header 
for all three units, including the new crossover line 
Central Lube 
between Unit 1 supply and return headers, and reconnect Unit 1 piping to the common plant purifier header piping.
 
DCN 51117
 
Modify, replace, or add equipment, electrical components, foundations, and piping within the Central Lube Oil System 
and 480 V Turbine Building Vent Board System to support a new Unit 1 Turbo TOC purifier. Modify High Pressure Fire 
Protection System to add coverage for the new Turbo TOC. 
y
 
Water
 
Install replacement equivalent thermocouple assemblies (1-TE-23-32, -35, -38, -41, -44, -47, -50, 
& -53) in existing 
RHR Service 
thermowells (1-TW-23-32, -35, -38, -41, -44, -47, -50, 
& -53) respectively. Install new thermowells 1-TW-23-4100 &­

DCN 51177
 
4101 and new Resistance Temperature Detectors (RTDs) 1-TE-23-4100 & -4101 to accommodate temperature 
measurement on the outlet side of the heat exchangers. (EPU: Replace RHRSW Flow Control Valves (1-FCV-23-34,­
40, -46, 
&-52) and their associated Motor Operators (1-MVOP-23-34, -40, -46, &-52)]. Replace relief valves on inlet 
and outlet 
of heat exchangers (1-RFV-23-509, -516, -529, -536, -549, -555,  -568, & -574). Rework and upgrade 
Dresser couplings for A and C lines in the Service Water Tunnel. Revise large bore pipe supports for Loops A  and C to 
meet current design requirements including EPU. 
-9­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
•••••• Sy~t~tr.~rl~)··· 
} ••••.• .••••. .... 
Raw Cooling 
Water 
DCN 51118 
Install two (2-inch) injection lines to allow connection to the U2/U3 skid 
for chemical injection to the 42-inch Raw 
Cooling Water (RCW) Supply Header. Replace 1-TCV-24-40 eXisting 8-inch gate valve with 
an 8-inch globe valve of 
stainless steel and reroute control air piping to valve as necessary. Revise setpoints for RFPT bearing lube oil 
temperature controllers to allow operators to determine setpoint as process dictates. Upgrade 1-TCV-24-75 and install 
a bypass line 
for low-flow operation. Replace Stator Cooler outlet valves (1-THV-24-620A, & -620B) with stainless 
steel valves and replace associated downstream 8-inch piping with stainless steel pipe.  Replace Henry Pratt butterfly 
RCW header isolation valves (1-24-523) 24-inch; and (1-24-534) 10-inch, with Flowserve butterfly valves. Perform 
underwater repairs 
on leaking return piping to Wheeler Reservoir. Revise RCW supply and return piping to 
Condensate Booster Pump area coolers. Refurbish instrument piping in Panels 1-25-178, -179,  -182, 
& -182. 
y 
Raw Cooling 
Water 
DCN 51178 
Eliminate 2-inch RCW supply to 
H2-02 Analyzer Panels 1-25-340 & -341. Remove piping, cut and cap just after valve 
1-24-882 (2-inch). Install new thermowells 1-TW-24-80, -85, 
& -90 in Reactor Building Closed Cooling Water 
(RBCCW) heat exchanger 1A, 1B, 
& 1C outlets and replace thermocouples. Eliminate RCW supply to RHR Pump 
Seals and Room Coolers. Eliminate 
RCW supply to Control Bay Chillers. 
y 
Raw Cooling 
Water 
DCN 51189 
Replace and up size 
RCW piping, components, and supports to new Drywell Delta P  Compressor. 
y 
Raw Cooling 
Water 
DCN 51219 
Installation of 
RCW supplylreturn piping tolfrom each Reactor Recirculation Pump Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) 
heat exchanger, associated flow and temperature instrumentation, cabling/conduit and supports. 
y 
Raw Service 
Water 
DCN 51120 
Replace existing pairs 
of CUNO filters with redundant abrasive separators and rough duplex strainers for the Raw 
Service Water supply to the Condenser Circulating Water (CCW) pump bearings. 
y 
-10­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
·.•.•·.··$y.st;ni•••I'l~······.·t············· 
·u 
High Pressure 
Fire Protection 
and Detection 
DCN 51180 
Replace HPCI Turbine room deluge valve 1-FCV-26-37 with a packaged pre-action valve station. Modify Reactor 
Building existing pre-action sprinkler system on floor elevations 565', 593', 621', and south half 
of 639' to achieve area 
wide coverage. Install pre-action water curtain at the equipment hatch openings between Elevation 565' and 639' at 
column line R5/R6-T/U. Install pre-action sprinkler water curtain at the RHR Heat Exchanger door openings at 
Elevation 565'. Install pre-action sprinkler water curtain 
in the openings in east and west RHR Heat Exchanger rooms 
on the ceiling immediately below floor Elevation 565'. Install pre-action sprinkler water curtain at the stair openings 
between Elevation 565' and 639' at column line R1-U. Install pre-action sprinklers beneath stair landings in the 
southwest stairway at Elevation 605 and 630. Remove the existing fIXed-water spray systems on Elevation 565' and 
593'. Remove and discard all components 
of the Aqueous Film Fonning Foam (AFFF) system. 
y 
Condenser 
Circulating 
Water 
DCN 51120 
Design, procure, and install a debris filter 
for the inlet piping/water box for the Unit 1, C2 water box. Relocate the 
existing Nash vacuum priming valves and tie-in to the 4-inch water box vent piping. Replace sponge ball recirculation 
pumps with new pumps 
of 31655 wetted parts. Replace the collector inlet ball valves and associated motor operators. 
Replace collector discharge ball valves. Replace existing motor operators on the upper screen and lower screen 
of the 
strainer section in the tube cleaning system. Delete Control Air supply to the differential pressure indicating switches in 
the Amertap ball collection system. Modify valve operator circuitry 
for Vacuum Breaker valves (1-FCV-27-118A & ­
118B). Replace existing cables from each CCW pump to its associated capacitor bank. Revise the alann circuitry for 
condenser water box level instrument loops (6). Evaluate operation 
of CCW system at EPU conditions. 
y 
Condenser 
Circulating 
Water 
DCN 62015 
Replace Cooling Tower 
No.4. 
y 
(Common) 
Ventilation 
DCN 51748 
Facilitate the parallel operation 
of existing redundant air handling units (AHUs), on an as-needed basis, for the 
Condensate and Condensate Booster Pumps Area Ventilation System 
in support of EPU. Provide supplemental 
cooling to the new Hydrogen Water Chemistry (HWC) panel. 
y 
-11 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
Control Air 
DCN 51122 
Install 
an automatic actuated Unit isolation pressure control valve station on the Turbine Building between Unit 1 and 
Unit 2 to allow isolation 
of a leaking portion of the header in Unit 1 from the remainder of the system. Replace 
Secondary Containment Isolation Valves (1-FCV-32-28 & -29) and rewire associated solenoid valves (1-FSV-32-28A & 
-29A). Install manual isolation valves to future use with new Hydrogen Water Chemistry (HWC) panels 
in Turbine 
Building. 
y 
Control Air 
DCN 51164 
Replace pressure switches monitoring control air pressure to the Automatic Depressurization System (ADS) MSRVs 
(1-PS-32-31A thru -31F). Relocate ADS MSRV accumulators, re-size inlet and outlet lines, and re-route inlet line to top 
of the accumulator. Balance Control Air distribution between the two Drywell Control Air (DCA) header segments. 
Determine acceptable leak rate through check valves 
at the accumulator assemblies for the ADS MSRVs and MSIVs. 
y 
Control Air 
DCN 51182 
Delete Drywell Control Air Compressors A and B, and related aftercoolers, surge tanks, dryers, control instruments, 
piping, valves, and cables. Replace existing Drywell Control Air Receiver Tank Pressure switch (PS-32-70) with a non­
mercury filled switch. Provide a source 
of nitrogen to the DCA system from a 1-inch Containment Inerting System 
branch connection at check valve (1-CKV-76-542). Nitrogen is regulated to 100 psig  by a new DCA pressure regulator 
station 
on panel (925-0700). Remove Drywell Control Air prefilter and associated piping and instrumentation. Replace 
Primary Containment Isolation Valves (1-SHV-32-2160, & -2520 and 1-CKV-32-336 & -2521). Remove Primary 
Containment Isolation flow control Valves (1-FCV-32-62 & -63). 
y 
Service Air 
DCN 51183 
Remove all Service Air piping from the drywell. Piping to be cut between Penetration 
X-21 and check valve (33-785). 
Install air supervision system for piping downstream of valve (FCV-26-77). Air supervision supply will connect to 
existing Service Air header 
on Elev. 565'. Change Control Air Shutoff valve (1-SHV-32-1469) from Normally Open to 
Normally Closed. Cut associated line, plug, and label connection as "Spare". 
y 
Sampling and 
Water Quality 
DCN 51126 
Install a permanent tee and sample valve (1-SMV-43-852) in the generator breaker (1-PCBC-35-214) cooling water line 
to allow 
for sampling of the demineralized water, to verify proper conductivity. Provide seismically rugged anchors for 
the Main Steam Sample Station constant temperature bath. Replace generator breaker (1-PCBC-35-214) cooling 
water conductivity instruments with equivalent models, as was done on Units 2 and 3, in the water cooling plant (1­
CLR-35-797). 
y 
- 12 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
<::h~"gEI 
Sampling and 
Water Quality 
DCN 51140 
Replace existing obsolete Generator Cooling Water Conductivity Cells (1-CE-43-16A, -168, -16C) and associated I 
transmitters (1-CIT-43-16A, -168, -16C). Add sample test connections at same locations as conductivity elements to 
enable calibration. Add new oxygen analyzers (1-02AN-43-12, 
& -13) using dp across the inlet and outlet of the Stator 
Cooling Water System Deionizer to drive flow. 
Y 
Sampling and 
Water Quality 
DCN 51168 
Replace (1-FSV-43-13) due to age, time in  harsh environment, and degraded components. Replacement valve to 
have stem seal packing which meets EPRI guidelines. Associated switches (1-ZS-43-13A and -138) are being 
replaced. Existing globe valves (1-ISV-43-599, 1-TV-43-1054A and -10548) with gate valves for enhanced 
performance and replacement valves to have stem seal packing which meets EPRI guidelines. Delete existing vent 
line from the Reactor Recirculation discharge piping to sampling and associated valves (1-43-812A, 
& -8128) which 
serve no design function. 
Rework. instrument sensing lines for flow elements (1-FE-71-1A & -18) to correct negative 
slope and provide accurate steam flow indication and line break detection. 
Y 
Sampling and 
Water Quality 
DCN 51478 
Replace and relocate instrumentation from the Condensate Demineralizer Sampling Panel (25-148) to the Condensate 
Sample Panel (25-103). Add oxygen and hydrogen analyzers (1-02AN-43-9 and 1-H2AN-43-9, respectively) to the 
new Condensate Sample Panel. Add a sample chiller unit (1-CHR-43-20600 to cool influent sample streams in 
support of new panel (25-103). Add a Feedwater roughing cooler (1-CLR-43-48). Provide data feed from new panel 
(25-103) to the Integrated Computer System (ICS) See DCNs 51082 and 51137. Reroute ducts to provide exhaust 
capability for sample sink in new panel (25-103). Delete existing Feedwater turbidity instruments from panel (25-149). 
y 
Feedwater 
Level Control 
DCN 51138 
Replace existing Reactor Feed Pump Turbines (RFPT) governor control, lubricating and control oil, vibration 
monitoring, and trip components in  conjunction with the addition of a Foxboro Digital Reactor Feedwater Control 
System (DRFWCS). Install new panel 9-97 in the MCR and add fiber optic cables from Aux Instrument room and Unit 
1 Computer room to two local panels (925-562A & 925-5620). Remove existing RFPT controls including the 
mechanical linkage, Motor Speed Changer (MSC), and Motor Governor Unit (MGU); and replace with a Woodward 
Digital Governor and Final Drive. 
Standby Liquid 
IModify loop (1-P-63-7) power supply from 10-50 rnA to 4-20 rnA in panel (1-9-19). 
Control 
DCN 51081 
y 
y 
- 13 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
1­
Replace cable and conduit for SLC drywell inboard isolation valve zone switch. Standby Liquid 
Control 
DCN 51166 
y 
Standby liquid 
Control 
DCN 51233 
Modify/replace RTDs (1-TE-63-3 and -4) to upgrade obsolete equipment and ensure monitoring 
of tank solution instead 
of area ambient temperature. Replace (1-PI-63-7B and 1-PT-63-7) to remove obsolete equipment and  add isolation 
valve, drain valve (1-ISIV-63-7BA and -7BB) and quick disconnect to facilitate calibration. Remove heat tracing from 
process lines and components 
in the SLC system. Replace and rescale temperature switches (1-TS-63-3 and -4) to 
comply with 10CFR50.62 ATWS equivalency requirements for B10 enriched sodium pentaborate. Revise SLC Storage 
Tank level alarm setpoints to support implementation of Alternate Source Term and associated Tech Spec change 
which increases the net injectable volume of sodium penta borate from 3007 to 4000 gallons. 
y 
Reactor 
Building 
Ventilation 
& 
PCIS 
DCN 51081 
Provide for modification 
of Primary Containment Isolation System (PCIS) cabling from panel (1-9-15) to panels (1-9-42 
and -43) to provide functional redundancy separation. Existing power supply (1-PX-74-51) feeding loops (1-L-64-159A 
and 1-P-64-160A) and  new RTD temperature modifier (1-TM-64-52CA) are rewired to 
be segregated and powered 
from panel (1-9-42). In panel (1-9-19) modify loop (1-P-64-67) for conversion from 10-50 rnA to 4-20 rnA. Modify 
pressure switches (1-PDS-64-137A, 
B, C and 1-PDS-64-138A, B, and C) wiring to allow one loop to be removed from 
service without affecting the redundant loop. 
y 
Reactor 
Building 
Ventilation 
& 
PCIS 
DCN 51166 
Replace obsolete inboard Drywell Personnel Air Lock limit switch (1-ZS-64-53A), associated cable, and conduit. 
Replace Drywell Air Temperature elements (1-TE-64-52A 
& -52C) from thermocouples to RTDs and replace 
associated cable, conduit, and conduit seals. Delete the following Drywell Leak Rate instruments, associated cables 
and conduit: temperature elements (1-TE-64-82 thru -99) (18 total); humidity sensors (1-ME-64-111 thru -114) 
(4 total); 
and pressure sensor (1-PT-64-115) 
(1 total). Fabricate and install new Unit 1 Drywell Primary Containment Equipment 
Hatch Cover Lugs. 
y 
-14 ­

.. 
I 
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
·1,·><·.<::·':··"',<
I 
1··\<>,.·:.',,······ 
,::'·'1 .<>. .,"".,.",.. >/>.: i.
 
Reactor
 
Provide for modification 
of Drywell Vacuum Breakers (1-FCV-64-28A, thru 28M [except 281» by replacing hinge anns, 
Building hinge pins, bushings, and other parts per (NUREG-0661). Install Unit 1 Torus vent path to the common header portion 
Ventilation 
& 
of the Hardened Wet Well Vent (HWVVV), including Plimary Containment Isolation Valves (PCIVs) (1-FCV-64-221, & ­
PCIS 222) and associated solenoid valves, air operators, 250V dc power, and Control Room handswitches and indications. 
DCN 51189 
Replace the following unqualified valves with 10CFR50.49 qualified models: (1-FSV-64-17, -18, -19, -20, -21, -29, -30, 
-31, -32, -33, 
& -34). Replace the following valves, including Bettis actuators (1-FCV-64-17 thru -21; -29, -30; 32, &­
33) with new valves having closing times of 2.5 seconds or less. Replace cables/conduits, limit switches, tenninal 
blocks, and other electrical components to satisfy EQ, Class 1E, and ampacity issues, and to resolve component 
reliability issues due to age, time in harsh environment, and degradation. Replace previously removed Drywell Delta P 
compressor, motor, aftercooler, and associated controls and cables/conduit. Replace two unqualified Drywell 
Penetrations (PA), containing 
aiJ10ck lighting, telephone, and door status circuitry, with (1) ASME Section III  qualified 
penetration assembly. 
Provide for fire damper installation in Reactor Building Ventilation ducts through floor penetrations (27 dampers). 
Building 
Reactor 
Provide for new Main Steam Vault Exhaust Booster Fan installation. Provide for replacement 
of Core Spray and RHR 
Ventilation 
& 
Pump Room Cooler motors, EO associated cables, and room temperature instruments. Provide for replacement of 
PCIS 
Secondary Containment Isolation Valve cables, limit switches, and tenninal blocks.
 
DCN 51190
 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to Emergency Core Cooling System (ECCS) Panel (1-9-81). 
Building 
Reactor 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to ECCS Panel (1-9-82).
 
Ventilation 
&
 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to Reactor Protection System (RPS) Panel (1-9-83).
 
PCIS
 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to RPS Panel (1-9-84).
 
DCN 51243
 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to RPS Panel (1-9-85).
 
Modify/add/replace components and wiring internal to RPS Panel (1-9-86).
 
Refurbish components and cabling to Panels (1-25-5A, -5B, -5C, 
-50, -6A, -6B, -6C) and replace EO cables. Refurbish
 
components and cabling in Panels (1-25-31, -34, -57B, 
-570, -213,  -219, -220,  -221, -222, -306, -307, and -308) and
 
replace EQ cables.
 
- 15 ­
y 
y 
y 

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I>} 
Reactor 
Replace torus wide range level transmitters (1-LT-64-159A 
&-159B), install quick-disconnect fittings, and splices. 
y 
Building Replace torus narrow range level transmitters (1-LT-64-54 
& -66) and associated flow controllers (1-FIC-64-54, & -66). 
Ventilation 
& 
Add level sensors (1-LE-64-54, 
& -66); sight glasses (1-LG-64-54, & -66) demineralized water connections, platforms, 
PCIS 
communications, lighting, and power. 
DCN 51245 
Reactor
 
Building
 
Ventilation 
&
 
PCIS
 
DCN 51318
 
OffGas
 
DCN 51128
 
Remove removable relief panels in Unit 1 to combine four Secondary Containment zones into one zone. One result of 
y 
this change is the free flow 
of each reactor zone atmosphere with the common refuel floor atmosphere. For Elev. 639', 
621', 
& 593', remove all vertical removable relief panels and steel frames surrounding the equipment hatch. Install 
removable handrails around the hatch. The handrails 
are Seismic Class 11/1 (position retention). For Elev. 593' to 580', 
remove all removable relief panels, however, steel frames are left in place. 
For Elev. 580' to 565', remove all vertical 
removable panels and vertical steel frames surrounding the truck bay. Remove horizontal roof panels, however, 
beams and steel frames are left in place. Add three 
new diagonal braces to the roof steel platform. Seal two (2) 4-inch 
Dirty Radwaste (DRW) floor drains with removable closure plates to prevent the flow 
of water from the SE corner of the 
Rector Building into the HPCI room. Provide for the installation of 
an 8-inch concrete curb and ramp in the labyrinth 
passage 
of the Main Steam Valve Vault (MSVV) to contain water within the vault. Provide for increasing the concrete 
curb at the entrance to the HPCI room from 12 inches to 18 inches to prevent water from entering the room. 
Replace existing obsolete Catalytic Recombiner drain valves (1-FSV-66-73, 
&-88). Install test connections in suction 
y 
and discharge piping of Vacuum Pumps (1-PMP-66-43A1, 
& -43B1) to support Condenser air inleakage tests. Install 
spring-operated piston check valves (1-CKV-66-922, 
& -923, respectively) on Service Air System connected to Offgas 
System Train 'A' and 'B', respectively. Replace SJAE inlet and outlet valves (1-FCV-66-11, -14, -15, 
&-18) with spark­
proof seats. Modify Offgas sample connections to H2 
&02 analyzer containing valves (1-SHV-66-575, &-576). Add 
Chilled Water sample line at (1-PI-66-63). Replace Chilled Water relief valve (1-RFV-66-541). Replace Glycol 
Recirculation Pumps (1-PMP-66-104, 
& -105). Replace Offgas Stack discharge valve (1-FCV-66-28) with spark-proof 
seat and replace associated solenoid (1-FSV-66-28) 
and limit switches (1-ZS-66-28A, & -28B). 
-16­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
y 
- 17 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
Emergency 
Replace the following carbon steel valves with stainless steel valves: 
y 
Equipment (1-Ckv-67-541, -542, -554, -584, -585,-597, -648, -649, -656, -657, 
& -598) 
Cooling 
Water 
(1-TV-67-236, -237, -243, -244, -251, -252, & -259) (1-SHV-67-550, -551, -569, -570, -593, -594, -596, -610, & -611) 
DCN 51192 
(1-VTV-67-746, & -751). Reroute 1-inch Emergency Equipment Cooling 
Water (EECW) line to H2 Analyzers that 
interferes with a pennanent ladder required for access to (1-FCV-23-57) during perfonnance of certain Emergency 
Operating Instruction appendices. Add 
EECW 1-inch flush connections with piping, shut off valves, and quick 
disconnects to the supply and discharge lines for RHR Pump Room Coolers 1A, 1B, 1C, & 1D. Add the following 1­
inch valves at the flush connections: (1-SHV-67-817 
& -818) at RHR Room Cooler 1A return and inlet connections, 
respectively; (1-SHV-67-827 
& -828) at RHR Room Cooler 18 return and inlet connections, respectively; (1-SHV-67­
819 & -820) at RHR Room Cooler 1C return and inlet connections, respectively; and (1-SHV-67-829 & -830) at RHR 
Room Cooler 
10 return and inlet connections, respectively. Change motive fluid for valves (1-FCV-67-50 &  51) from 
water to air. Cut, remove and cap piping downstream 
of valves (1-RTV-67-6022A & -6009A) and up to the connection 
to the valve operators for (1-FCV-67-50 & -51) respectively. Provide new 
Y2""inch connections to install pressure 
switches (1-PS-67-50 & -51) 
in the 8-inch header at the downstream side of valves (1-SHV-67-640 & -575) 
respectively. Add a travel stop to valve (1-FCV-67-50) to limit travel to 25%, +/-1% 
of maximum opening. 
-18­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
::':'""" 
Reactor Water 
Modify the existing RHR Low Pressure Coolant Injection (LPCI) System signal isolation 
of the Recirculation Pump 
y 
Recirculation discharge valve logic 
so that the Div I RHR (LPCI) signal will only isolate the 1B Recirculation Pump discharge valve 
DCN 51016 associated with the 
LPClioop I injection line. while the Div II  RHR (LPCI) signal will only isolate the 1A Recirculation 
Pump discharge valve associated with the 
LPClioop II injection line. Delete the interlock signals from pressure 
switches (1-PS-68-93. & -94) to block the isolation 
of the LPCI injection valves (1-FCV-74-53. & -67) on a Group 2 
PCIS initiation when reactor pressure is '=105 psig. Pressure switches (1-PS-68-93. 
& -94) will continue to provide a 
(reactor pressure '=105 psig) signal to relays (10A-K97A 
& 10A-AK97B) to isolation valve (1-FCV-74-48) which 
prevents shutdown cooling from being in  service when reactor pressure is 
'=105 psig. Modify Core Spray initiation & 
ECCS Preferred Pump logic 
so that U2 Core Spray (CS) Pumps 2A &2C and Residual Heat Removal (RHR) Pumps 
2A 
& 2C are load shed on a U1 accident signal initiation and U1 CS Pumps 1B & 10 and RHR Pumps 1B &10 are 
load shed on a U2 initiating signal 
if the pumps were running with normal power available. Thus. CS Pumps 1A  &  1C 
and RHR Pumps 
1A & 1C are dedicated to U1 and CS Pumps 2B &20 and RHR Pumps 2B &20 are dedicated to U2 
with either normal or DG power available. Add new load shed initiating signal from CS Relays (14A-K11 A &-K11 B) 
which will be redundant to Relays (10A-K73A 
&-K73B) to avoid single failure and over1oading of (2) 4kV Shutdown 
Boards. 
- 19 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
. d)/
Ic~ 
I> 
Reactor Water Replace existing Reactor Pressure Vessel (RPV) recirculation outlet safe ends at nozzles N1A and N1 B (total of 2) with 
y 
Recirculation those made 
of 316NG stainless steel. Replace existing (RPV) recirculation inlet safe ends at nozzles N2A, N2B, N2C, 
DCN 51045 
N2D, N2E, N2F, N2G, N2H, N2J, & N2K (total 
of 10) with those made of 316NG stainless steel. Remove and replace
 
the existing 28-inch recirculation lines between the RPV recirculation safe end to the RPV recirculation ring headers,
 
including flow elements for loops A  & 
B, with those made of 316NG stainless steel. Remove and replace the existing
 
recirculation risers (total 
of 10) at RPV nozzles N2A, N2B, N2C, N2D, N2E, N2F, N2G, N2H, N2J, & N2K, with those
 
made 
of 316NG stainless steel. Remove and replace the existing ring headers in the pump discharge piping for loops
 
A  & 
B, with those made of 316NG stainless steel. Remove valves (1-FCV-68-33 & -35) and associated circuitry and
 
controls inside the Drywell. Remove associated valves (1-68-530, -531,  -532, -533, -535, -536, -537, -538, -68-NNN-1,
 
&-68-NNN-2) and the 22-inch piping between loop A  & B ring headers. Remove and replace existing Jet Pump
 
Instrumentation (JPI) nozzle safe ends at RPV nozzles N8A &  N8B, and proximity piping. Delete valves (1-68-292, ­

293, -294, & -295). Remove (8) 1-inch sensing lines installed between recirculation discharge risers at RPV nozzles
 
N2A - N2H, and N2J, N2K and their associated containment penetrations. Cut and cap the penetrations. Replace the
 
following thermowellltemperature element sets: (1-TW-68-2 &  1-TE-68-2; 1-TW-68-6 &  1-TE-68-6A & 1-TE-68-6B; 1­

TW-68-78 & 1-TE-68-78; 1-TW-68-83 & 1-TE-68-83A 
& 1-TE-68-83B). Remove and cap the bonnet vent lines for
 
valves (1-FCV-68-1, -77, & -79) and remove associated drain valves (1-68-502, -503, -511, -512, -517, -518, 
-526,­

527). Add (3) new vent valves and piping routed to Clean Radwaste for each Recirculation Pump (valves 1-68-6601, ­

6602 & -6603 for pump 1A &  1-68-6604, -6605, & -6606 
for pump 1B). Provide permanent radiation shielding (lead
 
blankets) for vertical segments 
of the 12-inch and 28-inch recirculation piping. Replace 2-inch globe valves (1-68-505,
 
-506, -520, & -521) 
in recirculation pump suction drain lines with valves of non-cobalt trim and EPRI-approved graphite
 
packing. Replace rotating assemblies and seal cartridges 
for recirculation pumps (1-PMP-68-60A & -60B) including
 
shafts, seals, impellers, and covers. Replace recirculation pump seal injection lines and associated valves.
 
ReactorWater IReplace existing Recirculation Pump/motor 1A & 1B vibration monitoring and speed indicating instrumentation, cabling I Y 
Recirculation and conduit. Refurbish and rewind recirculation pump motors. 
DCN 51167 
Reactor Water 
IProvide Raw Cooling Water to Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) which replace M-G sets (DCN 51219) for IY 
Recirculation Recirculation Pump motors. 
DCN 51178 
-20­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
i;!it~1?J>« •••••..••••..• <iI·.··.~··f;?(~@~~~~~~~]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
DCN 51193 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
DCN 51218 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
DCN 51219 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
DCN 51234 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
DCN 60072 
Replace existing inner and outer RPV head metallic O-ring seals with new spring-energized O-rings and associated 
I 
retainer clips. Repair Intergranular Stress Corrosion Cracking (IGSCC) on and around the two Access Hole Covers 
(AHCs) 
in the RPV shroud support plate, to include installation of new AHCs if necessary. Install retaining clamps on 
jet pump instrument sensing lines (internal to the RPV) to resolve vibration issue. Replace the (48) shroud head bolts 
with newly designed bolts. Replace RPV core plate plugs as required. Replace the following Recirculation Pump seal 
injection line valves:; (1-CKV-68-550 
&-555; 1-SHV-68-552 &-557; 1-VTV -68-551 &-556; and 1-RFV-68-553 &-558). 
Relocate flow indicators (1-FI-85,:,52, 
&-53) to downstream of the inlet connections of seal injection supply relief valves 
to provide a more accurate indication 
of seal injection flow to the Recirculation Pumps. 
Replace cables identified for replacement in Total Program Breakage Summary. Splice Reactor Water Recirculation 
System circuits 
on outboard (reactor building) side of Penetrations (EB, EC, &EE). Abandon/remove cables for 
components that are deleted. Deterrnlsplice/reterm cables not replaced but requiring wiring changes. Modify breaker 
compartments, components,  and panel wiring for power and control circuits 
of MOVs (1-FCV-68-3, -33, -35, &-79). 
Abandon M-G sets powering Recirculation Pump motors (in -place) and install new solid state Variable Frequency 
I 
Drives (VFDs). Remove M-G set lube oil skids, heat exchangers, and foundations. Rerate Recirculation Pump motors 
from 8000 to 8550 
hp. 
Install new panel (1-LPNL-925-412), vibration monitoring system, associated cables, and system panel to support 
EPU. Refurbish existing Reactor Water Recirculation System instrument panels/racks (1-25-7A, -7B, -518, -52A, -52B, 
& 1-9-18). Replace existing GE Measurement &Control components with Foxboro Intelligent Automation (IIA) 
components. Refurbish existing affected panels (1-9-38, -18, 
& -19). Complete implementation of Recirculation Pump 
Trip 
(RPl) and portions of the (ATWS) modifications for Unit 1. Affected panels are (1-925-416, -612, -415, -613, -614, 
-616, -615, 
&-419). Perform Foxboro and Bentley-Nevada software verification and validation. 
Install control circuit isolation fuses in the positive legs 
of the 250 V dc trip circuits for Normal; and Emergency feeder 
breakers for Reactor Recirculation Pumps 1A (Breakers 1122 
& 1436) and Pump 1B (Breakers 1124 & 1534). Also, a 
single fuse is added to the positive leg in the 250 V 
dc circuits for Reactor Recirculation Pumps 1A & 1B Overcurrent 
Relay and Transfer Selector Switch circuit (Appendix R). 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
-21 -

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I·"
.. 
Reac
Cleanup 
DCN 5104
tor Wate
6 
r Remove and replace 6-inch process piping and valves from the 20-inch RHR piping connection to primary con
penetration X-14. Replace Motor Operated Valves (1-FCV-69-1, 
& -2) per TVA's GL 89-10 program and  add 
valves/capability for Appendix 
J testing of (1-FCV-69-1). Replace system valves inside the Drywell (1-69-500, 
584, -503, 
& -504). Install a 2-inch decontamination flush connection with 2-inch gate valves (1-69-551, & -55
camlock male fitting. Replace cable to (1-FCV-69-1) to correct ampacity/voltage concerns and install (2) T-dra
Install instrument locations to measure piping vibration. 
···················.·I••••••••••••• 
tainment 
-583, 
2) and a 
ins. 
~r{ 
y 
~\~fl~· .....•••••••• 
Reactor Water 
Replace/upgrade 
various 4-inch and 6-inch piping segments to, from, and interconnecting regen and non-regen heat 
y 
Cleanup 
4 
exchangers and from RWCU pump discharge to the tie-in to the RWCU demineralizer influent pipe. Replace 
DCN 5119
regenerative heat exchangers. Replace RWCU recirculation pumps (1-PMP-69-4A, 
& -4B). 
Replace small bore vent, drain, and test connections branching off 
of the RWCU piping, including the associat
valves. Replace instrument lines branching from replaced piping, up to the root valves. Replace flow element
RWCU discharge lines. Replace 
various thermowells and temperature elements. Replace strainers (1-STN-6
-801). Reroute RWCU flow from outboard isolation valve (1-FCV-69-2) through regenerative heat exchangers 
C, and non-regenerative heat exchangers A & B, the to the RWCU Pump suction resulting in lower temperatur
entering pumps and longer lasting pump seals. 
ed 
s on 
9­800 
& 
A, B, & 
Reactor 
Buildi
Cooli
DCN 5097
ng Close
ng 
Wate
7 
d 
r 
Complete the piping tie-in to the Unit 1 Reactor Building Closed Cooling Water (RBCCW) System from the exi
Drywell Outage Chillers. 
sting 
e water 
y 
Reactor 
Buildi
Cooli
ng Clos
ng Water 
ed 
Replace 
RBCCW System carbon steel piping within the drywell with stainless steel piping. Replace the drywell 
atmosphere cooling coils and blowers (Drywell Cooler) to improve cooling 
of drywell atmosphere. Replace the 
and outlet RBCCW valves to each of (10) coils. Upsize Drywell Cooler blower motor power cables (See DCN 
inlet 
1195). 
y 
DCN 51148 
Delete (60) cables, associated conduits and junction boxes due to new Drywell Coolers being completely facto
Modify 
RBCCW piping to new Recirculation Pump seal assemblies and reduce connections to one supply and 
return per seal assembly cooler. Replace (44) cables inside the drywell with environmentally qualified (EO) ca
ry 
5
wired. 
one 
bles. 
- 22 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
j~$4~i~j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~I~~~~I~~~~~~~I~I~ii;••i·•••i••••• ,l 
II' 
Reactor 
Building Closed 
Cooling Water 
DCN 51195 
Install isolation, drain, and test valves to provide for LLRT 
of Primary Containment Isolation Valves (1-CKV-7o-506 & 1­
FCV-70-47). Replace thermowells and temperature elements for loops (1-T-70-3, -50, -51, -52, -53, -54, -56, -58, 
&­
60). Document thrust requirements and switch settings for motor operated containment isolation valve (1-FCV-70-47) 
to meet 
GL 89-10 requirements. 
y 
Reactor Core 
Isolation 
Cooling 
DCN 51149 
Replace solid wedge gate valve (1-FCV-71-2) with a newer design double disc gate valve. Delete the associated leak­
off valve and piping. Add a 
%" test line to bottom of new valve body for between-seat leak testing. Install new motor 
operator to meet 
EQ and GL 89-10 requirements. Replace existing cable, conduit, and conduit supports for this new 
MOV and bypass the torque switch in the motor operator control circuit. 
y 
Reactor Core 
Isolation 
Cooling 
DCN 51196 
Perform various mechanical modifications to the Reactor Core Isolation Cooling (RCIC) System valves from among the 
following: Upgrade valve packing to EPRI-approved graphite (live-load) packing, remove leak-off valves, cut, and cap 
or plug, leak-off lines. Replace solid wedge gate valve with a newer design double disc gate valve. Delete the 
associated leak-off valve and piping (excluding 1-SHV-71-14). Add a 
%" test line to bottom of new valve body for 
between-seat leak testing. Install new motor operator to meet EQ and 
GL 89-10 requirements, including T-drains and 
grease relief valve for gear case. Bypass the torque switch 
in the motor operator control circuit. Install test line with 
test and shutoff valves for 10CFR50 Appendix 
J testing. Applicable to (1-FCV-71-3, -6A, -6b, -7a, -7B, -8, -9, -17, -18, 
-25, -34, -37, -38, -39; 1-SHV-71-14 
& 1-PCV-71-22). For check valves (1-CKV-71-597, -598, -599, & -600), install a 
2-inch gate valve (1-SHV-71-520) in the RCIC turbine exhaust vacuum relief piping to facilitate Appendix 
J testing. 
Replace (1-CKV-71-520) with a new T-pattem globe lift check valve. Replace (1-FCV-71-40) with a new pneumatic 
testable check valve. Replace valve (1-FCV-71-59) and associated motor operator. 
y 
-23­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I_ 
apt 
r< 
Reactor Core 
Perform various electrical modifications to RCIC System valves (1-FCV-71-3, -8, -9, -10, -17, -18, -25, -34, -38, -39, 
&­
Y 
Isolation 59). Disconnect existing power and control wiring to the MOVs, remove 
or abandon cables/conduits and replace
 
Cooling
 eXisting internal wiring with EO wiring. Relocate power supplies. Remove local control switches. Remove power from
 
DCN 51220
 
valve (1-FCV-71-59) to maintain valve deenergized and open by opening associated 480V Reactor 
MOV Board 1A 
breaker. Replace limit switches 
for (1-FCV-71-10) for valve mid-position indication. Provide 250V dc power to new 
solenoid-operated RCIC steam line trap bypass valve (1-LCV-71-5); valve to fail closed on loss 
of power. Provide for 
automatic restart of RCIC System upon a reactor vessel low water level signal folloWing a reactor vessel high water 
level trip per NUREG-0737. Remove the electronic overspeed trip function from the RCIC turbine per GE 
SIL No. 382. 
Replace existing 
GE relays (1-RLY-71-13A-K9 & -K42) with Agastat time delay relays and change setpoint of relay (1­
RLY-71-13A-K42) in panel (1-25-31) from 30 seconds to 90 seconds 
to allow RCIC condensate pump to operate until 
low level is reached without activating annunciator (LA-71-29), RCIC GLAND 
SEAL VACUUM TANK LEVEL HIGH 
(XA-55-3B, Window 20). Replace and/or reroute electrical wiring/cables and replace components and instruments to 
meet EO requirements, Appendix R breakage reqUirements, and to resolve electrical and instrument issues/concerns. 
Equivalent instrument replacements: Replace existing (1-PDIS-71-1A 
& 1B) with (1-PDT-71-1A & 1B).
Reactor Core 
Y 
Isolation Replace (1-PS-71-1 A, 1B, 1C, &  1D) 
to meet EO and Class 1E requirements.
 
Cooling
 Replace (1-PS-71-21 A) due to failed accuracy evaluation and obsolescence. Replace (1-FS-71-36) with (1-FIS-71-36).
 
DCN 51236
 
Replace RCIC Turbine Exhaust High Pressure switches (1-PS-71-13A & -13B).
 
Replace flow solenoid valves (1-FSV-71-6A 
&-6B) due to obsolescence.
 
Replace flow transmitters (1-FT-71-1A 
& -1B) due to obsolescence.
 
Replace pressure transmitters (1-PT-71-4. -12, 
& -35) due to obsolescence.
 
Replace pressure switches (1-PS-71-11A, -11B, -11C, 
& -11 D) due to obsolescence.
 
Replace temperature switches (1-TS-71-2A. -2B, -2C, 
-20, -2E, -2F, -2G. -2H, -2J, -2K, -2L, -2M, -2N, -2P, -2R, & -2S)
 
due 
to obsolescence. Refurbish instrument panels (1-25-7A &  1-25-58).
 
Add new RCIC Turbine Control Panel (1-LPNL-925-672).
 
Auxiliary Decay Heat Removal system was established in 1997 when Unit 1 was not operating. Provide auxiliary
 
Auxiliary Decay 
Y 
Heat Removal 
decay heat removal capability such 
that RHR system can be made available for maintenance soon after reactor
 
DCN 51197
 
shutdowns. Route new 12-inch and 14-inch piping and components 
to and from the fuel pool to provide decay heat 
removal. 
-24­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
.....::<>::-::: 
..·..·.<.··.. IJ~"':~<· •....
........:......:-:: .......&::.:-;-::.:.t:>:.:-:":-:.:: 
High Pressure 
Coolant 
Injection 
DCN 51083 
y 
High Pressure 
Coolant 
Injection 
DCN 51150 
Replace solid wedge gate valve (1-FCV-73-2) with newer design double 
disc gate valve. Delete the associated leak-off 
valve and piping, as applicable. Add a %" test line 
to bottom of new valve body for between-seat leak testing. Install 
new 
motor operator to meet EO and GL 89-10 requirements. Replace existing cable, conduit, and conduit supports for 
this new MOV and bypass the torque switch in the motor operator control circuit, as applicable. Upsize power cabling 
to new MOV operator due to larger motor, as applicable. 
y 
High Pressure 
Coolant 
Injection 
DCN 51198 
Replace motor actuator and spring pack for valves (1-FCV-73-36, 
& -40) and provide live-load packing and smart stem. 
Cut and cap stem leak-off lines. as applicable. Replace solid wedge gate valve (1-FCV-73-3) with newer design 
double 
disc gate valve. Delete the associated leak-off valve and piping, as applicable. Add a %" test line to bottom of 
new valve body for between-seat leak testing, as applicable. Install new motor operator to meet EO and GL 89-10 
reqUirements, including T-drains, as applicable. Replace 
motor actuator and spring pack for valve (1-FCV-73-18) and 
provide live-load packing and smart stem. Cut and cap stem leak-off lines, as applicable. This valve is changed from 
globe 
to a gate valve. Replace motor actuator and spring pack for valve (1-FCV-73-16) and provide live-load packing 
and 
smart stem. Cut and cap stem leak-off lines, as applicable. Opening time is increased from 20 seconds to 30 
seconds. 
The new valve has body drain which is plugged. Replace existing EG-R hydraulic actuator (1-SM-73-190) for 
HPCI Turbine control valve (1-FCV-73-19) with a device qualified by GE. Replace HPCI booster pump suction relief 
valve (1-RFV-73-506) and lower set pressure from 150 psig to 55 psig per 
GE SIL No. 129. Replace previously 
removed HPCI pump test flow control valve 1-FCV-73-35 with a  new valve and provide live-load packing and 
smart 
stem. Replace the motor operators and valve stem packing on valves (1-FCV-73-26, -34, & -44) and plug stem leak-off 
lines. Replace testable check valve and pneumatic operator on (1-FCV-73-45). Replace check valve (1-73-603) with a 
new'T' pattern globe lift check valve. Add new 2-inch gate isolation valve downstream of check valve (1-73-24) and 
upstream 
of penetration X-222. Replace motor actuator and spring pack for valve (1-FCV-73-30) and provide live-load 
packing and smart stem. Cut and cap stem leak-off line. Add a 4-inch isolation 
gate valve (1-SHV-73-652) between (1­
FCV-73-30) and the connection 
to the 18-inch RHR test line. Refurbish/ upgrade GE supplied HPCI turbine/pump skid 
to included impeller replacement and seismic qualifications. 
y 
-25­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
Replace existing cables for new level switches (1-LS-73-56A, -56B, -57A, & -57B) (Ref. DCN 51237). Replace existing 
Y
 
relay (23A-K17) with time delay relay (1-RLY-73-29-1) to retard the low suction pressure trip function 
of (1-PS-73-29-1)
 
for 7 seconds. Replace HPCI booster pump suction pressure switch (1-PS-73-29-1) with a Class 1E, EQ device.
 
Replace time delay relays (23A-K43 & -K51) for HPCI discharge pump and suppression chamber High Pressure, with
 
(1-RLY-73-23AK43, & -51) 
in panel (1-9-39). Replace (LCV-73-5) HPCI condensate drain pot drain valve, with a
 
manual valve. Replace various obsolete handswitches and temperature and level instruments, and upgrade wiring,
 
splices, and connectors to Class 1E, EQ.
 
High Pressure
 
Coolant
 
Injection
 
DCN 51221
 
High Pressure
 
Coolant
 
Injection
 
DCN 51237
 
Equivalent instrument replacements: Replace existing (1-LS-73-56A, -56B, 57
A, & -57B) 
Y 
Replace the following as a result 
of design/programs such as EQ & Class 1E requirements. 
Replace (1-LS-73-5). Replace (1-LS-73-8 with 1-LS-73-8A, & -8B) to allow separate alarm and control functions. 
Replace HPCI Steam Flow switches (1-PDIS-73-1A & 
-1 B). 
Replace HPCI Steam Supply pressure switches (1-PS-73-1A, -1B, -1C, & -1D). 
Replace HPCI System minimum flow switch (1-FS-73-33) with a non-indicating switch and add indicator (1-FI-73-33B). 
Replace HPCI System flow transmitter (1-FT-73-33). 
Replace HPCI Turbine Exhaust disc ruptured pressure switches (1-PS-73-20A, -20B, -20C, & -20D). 
Replace HPCI Turbine Exhaust pressure switches (1-PS-73-22A, & -22B). 
Replace HPCI Booster Pump suction pressure switch (1-PS-73-29-1). 
Replace HPCI Turbine instruments (1-SE-73-51) turbine speed pick-up; and (1-TE-73-54B, -54H, & -54J), turbine 
bearing thermocouples. 
Replace Gland Seal Condensate 
Hotwellievelswitch high (1-LS-73-15A), and low (1-LS-73-15B). 
Replace HPCI Turbine Steam Line pressure transmitter (1-PT-73-4), Exhaust pressure transmitter (1-PT-73-21), 
Booster Pump suction pressure transmitter (1-PT-73-28), and Main Pump Discharge pressure transmitter (1-PT-73­
31). 
Replace HPCI Steam Line Leakage temperature switches (1-TS-73-2A, 
B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K, L, M, N, P, R, & S). 
Refurbish instrument panels/racks (1-25-7B, -25-50, & -25-63). 
-26­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
•... ::.: .....;:.:.:::.J;... 
1< 
Residual Heat
 
Removal
 
DCN 51151
 
Residual Heat
 
Removal
 
DCN 51199
 
y
Refurbish valve (1-FCV-74-48) and install new motor operator. Replace existing cables and conduits with new cables. 
Replace and upgrade materials 
for the 20-inch suction line and (2) -24-inch shutdown cooling/RHR return lines from 
first weld inside the drywell to their respective connections to the Reactor Water Recirculation System loops A & 8 
piping. Replace check valves (1-CKV-74-661 & -662) currently installed in  vertical piping and unsuitable for this 
application. Replace large bore valves (1-FCV-74-54, -68, & 1-HCV-74-49, -55, -69). Install new 2-inch Decon 
connections on the 20-inch suction line and (2) -24-inch shutdown cooling/RHR return lines to allow for future 
cleaning/decon activities. Eliminate air-actuator and testable feature from check valves (1-FCV-74-54 & -68) and 
change unit identification numbers (UNIDs) from 
'FCV'to 'CKV'. Remove associated solenoid valves, limit switches, 
cables, handswitches, and indicating lights. Delete piping, valves (1-FCV-74-78, -690, -691, -694, -695 & -697) and 
associated wiring from reactor vessel head (nozzle N6A) to the drywell penetration to eliminate the head spray function 
and support RVLlS modifications. Eliminate bonnet vents from valves (1-HCV-74-49, -55, &-69) and delete bonnet 
vent and body drain from (1-FCV-74-48). 
y
Replace pressure indicators (1-PI-74-117 & -133) on drain pump "A" suction and pressure indicators (1-PI-74-118 
&­
134) on drain pump "8" suction. Replace temperature elements (1-TE-74-81, & -82) and (1-TE-74-9, -21, -32, & -43) 
on the discharge and inlet 
of RHR heat exchangers. Modify instrument panels (25-2, -62, & -224A): Replace 
thermowells (1-TW-74-111, -112, -115, & -116). Cut and cap vent lines to valves (1-FCV-74-1 02, -103, -119, & -120). 
Install block valves, test connections, and vent lines to allow leak testing of the Core Spray isolation check valves. 
Replace obsolete system relief valves including (1-RFV-74-509A, -509C, -528A, -5288, -578C, -5780, -587A, -5878, ­
659, -677, -578A, -5788, -701, -709). Remove cross-tie flow control valve (1-FCV-74-46) actuator and gate valve. 
Install smart stems 
on the following GL 89-10 valves (1-FCV-74-7, -30,  -47, -53, -57, -58, -59, -60, -61, -67,  -71,  -72, ­
73, -74, & -75). Install bypass around the RHR Pump Seal Injection Water Heat Exchangers "A" & ·C'"and shutoff 
valves between RHR pumps and the heat exchangers to allow servicing the heat exchangers without removing the 
associated RHR pump form service. 
-27­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
Residual Heat
 
Removal
 
DCN 51222
 
Replace cables with EO cables, replace internal wiring, 
replace EO components, and reroute cables, as 
applicable, on the following: 
RHR Pump 1A suction valve(1-FCV_74-1) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling valve (1-FCV-74-2) 
RHR Pumps A&C Min Flow bypass valve (1-FCV-74-7) 
RHR Pump 1C suction valve (1-FCV-74-12) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling suction valve (1-FCV-74-13) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling suction isolation valve (1-FCV-74­
48) 
RHR Outboard valve (1-FCV-74-52) 
RHR Inboard valve (1-FCV-74-53) 
RHR Pressure Suppression Chamber isolation valve 
(1­
FCV-74-57) 
RHR Pressure Suppression Chamber spray valve (1-FCV­
74-58) 
RHR Test valve (1-FCV-74-59) 
RHR Containment Spray valve (1-FCV-74-60) 
RHR Containment Spray valve (1-FCV-74-61) 
RHR System I flush valve (1-FCV-74-104) 
RHR System I testable check valve (1-FCV-74-54) 
RHR Pump 1C (1-PMP-74-16) 
(1-FCV-74-102); (1-FCV-74-1119); Panel (1-9-32) 
RHR Pump 
18 suction valve(1-FCV_74-24) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling valve (1-FCV-74-25) 
RHR Pumps 
8&D Min Flow bypass valve (1-FCV-74-30) 
RHR Pump 1D suction valve (1-FCV-74-35) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling suction valve (1-FCV-74-36) 
RHR Discharge crosstie (1-FCV-74-46) 
RHR Shutdown Cooling suction isolation valve (1-FCV-74­
47) 
RHR Outboard valve (1-FCV-74-66) 
RHR Inboard valve (1-FCV-74-67) 
RHR Pressure Suppression Chamber isolation valve (1­
FCV-74-71) 
RHR Pressure Suppression Chamber spray valve (1-FCV­
74-72) 
RHR Test valve (1-FCV-74-73) 
RHR Containment Spray valve (1-FCV-74-74) 
RHR Containment Spray valve (1-FCV-74-75) 
RHR System I flush valve (1-FCV-74-1 06) 
RHR System 
II testable check valve (1-FCV-74-68) 
RHR Pump 
18 (1-PMP-74-28) & RHR Pump 1D (1-PMP­
74-39) 
(1-FCV-74-103); (1-FCV-74-1120); Panel (1-9-33) 
y 
-28­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
y 
Core Spray 
OCN 51200 
Replace ECCS suction strainers to provide acceptable head loss under all plant design conditions. Replace relief 
valves (1-RFV-75-507A, -5078, -507C, -5070, -543A, -5438, 
& -583). Add block valves and test connections to 
provide for local leak rate testing of check valves (1-CKV-75-606, 
& -607). Replace check valves (1-CKV-75-606, -607, 
-609, 
& -610). Add block valve and test connection upstream of (1-FCV-75-57) to eliminate need for freeze-plugging of 
associated piping for maintenance. For (1-FCV-75-9, 
& -37), install new valve and EO motor operator, including T­
drains 
for the limit switch compartment and motor. New valve to be furnished with smart stem, upgraded gland packing 
and leak-off connection plugged. For (1-FCV-75-22, 
& -50) install new EO motor operator, including T-drains for the 
limit switch compartment and motor and a new threaded stem nut. Upgrade gland packing and remove leak-off valve. 
For (1-FCV-75-25, 
& -53) install new EO motor operator, including T-drains for the limit switch compartment and motor 
and a new threaded stem nut. Additionally, modify the valve by drilling a 0.25" hole 
in the high-pressure side disc face 
to eliminate pressure binding. Upgrade gland packing and remove leak-off valve. For (1-FCV-75-2, 
& -30) install new 
EO motor operator, including T-drains for the limit switch compartment and motor and a new threaded stem nut. 
Upgrade gland packing and remove leak-off valve. For (1-FCV-75-11, 
& -39) install new EO motor operator, including 
T-drains 
for the limit switch compartment and motor and a new threaded stem nut. Upgrade gland packing and remove 
leak-off valve. For (1-FCV-75-23, 
& -51) install new EO motor operator, including T-drains for the limit switch 
compartment and motor and a new threaded stem nut. Upgrade gland packing and remove leak-off valve. Add 
sediment traps for PSC head tanks "keep fill" function. Remove Core Spray drain pumps. 
y 
Core Spray 
DeN 51223 
Provide new cables/conduit and abandon existing cables in place for SOVs/MOVs/controls and other Core Spray 
system components:(1-SHV-75-27, -55, 1-FCV-75-2, -9, -11, -22,  -23, -25, -30, -37, -39,  -50, -51, -53, 1-FSV-75-57 
&­
58). 
y 
-29­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
·... 
. 
,
...•... 
....... 
.• < .....•. ······ii / ~........ . . 
'$ 
ill......,. 
Core Spray 
Replace pressure indicators (1-PI-75-4, 
-13, -32, & -41). 
y 
DCN 51238 Replace pressure switches (1-PS-75-7, -16,  -24, -35, -44, 
& -52). 
Replace pressure transmitters (1-PT-75-20, 
& -48). 
Replace flow transmitters (1-FT-75-21 
& -49). 
Replace flow switches (1-FS-75-21, 
& -49). 
Replace temperature transmitters (1-TTS-75-69A, 
& -698) 
Refurbish panels (1-25-1, -57A, -60, 
& -256) 
Revise calculations and setpoints for EPU. 
Containment 
Inerting 
DCN 51169 
Remove existing H2 
& 02 elements, sample lines, cables, valves, and associated hangers from the drywell. Add (2) 
new lines for sampling both H2 
& 02 with valves (1-SHV-76-74, & -84 and 1-TV-76-75, & -85) at penetrations X-27F & 
X-52D. 
y 
Containment 
Inerting 
DCN 51201 
Install shutoff valve (1-SHV-76-538) , check valves (1-CKV-76-551, 
& -552) and pipe branching off existing 1-inch 
Traversing Incore Probe (TIP) nitrogen supply line to Drywell Control Air to provide a diverse nitrogen source. Install 
new pressure regulator/indicator (1-PREG-76-50) 
on TIP nitrogen supply line to provide stable nitrogen supply to TIP 
purge system. Replace devices, components, and cables due to obsolescence and to meet Class 1E 
& EQ standards 
y 
(1-FSV-76-17, -18, -19, -24, 
& -503); 1-ZS-76-17A, -178, -18A, -188, -19A, & -198). Replace relief valves (1-RFV-76­
543, 
& -656). Replace flow transmitter/totalizer (1-FT-76-25) and pressure transmitter (1-PT-76-14). Route/reroute 
associated electrical cables/conduit. 
Containment 
Inerting 
DCN 51369 
Remove existing Drywell 
02 and Torus sample lines and associated supports. Cap and spare associated 
penetrations. Replace existing valves (1-FSV-76-49, -50, -55, -56, -57, -58, -59, -60, -65, -66, -67, 
& -68). Replace 
existing 
H2I02 Analyzers 1A & 18 with one new analyzer. Relocate PASS source connections for Torus and Drywell 
gas sample points. Install new valve (1-FSV-43-87) 
in the Division I Torus sample return line, to divert H2I02 Analyzer 
y 
discharge flow to PASS sample panel. Included with this new valve are limit switches to provide indication at Control 
Room Panel 1-9-54. 
-30­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
1<' ~.,,:,:.?;:gu 
k 
.:: :: '.:: ..>::'.'."><
 .. :> :>'1::: .:>,:
, 
::::'.':.'.'>' ,., ..
 
,
··Systemand . 
. .,'. /:-:·~,~·2::.i:j/>~;· ;;,:. ':\ :":':,::":.: :.:,:,: :.:.::. 
-." 
Radwaste Remove valves (1-FCV-77-14A, & 14B; 1-DRV-77-666, & -667; 1-VTV-77-632) and associated cables/conduit.
 
DCN 51154
 Replace and upsize Clean RadWaste (CRW) heat exchangers in  drywell equipment drain sump and provide seismic 
supports. Replace check valves (1-CKV-77-600, -603, 
-625, & -628) with valves having a 1/16" diameter hole in the 
disc to prevent possible over-pressurization among Drywell Equipment Drain, floor drain sump pumps, and Primary 
Containment Isolation Valves (PCIVs). Replace drain sump bypass valves (1-77-602, -60S, -627, & -630) and 
associated piping and shutoff valves (1-77-601, -604, -624, -629). Replace the following instruments: (1-LT-77-1A, ­
1B, -14A, -14B; 1-TE-77-14; 1-FS-77-51) and associated cables/conduit. With these changes, the temperature control 
signal is deleted and pumps will operate 
on level controls. 
y 
Radwaste 
Replace flow control valves (1-FCV-77-15A, -15B, -2A, & -2B) with air operated ball valves, solenoid controllers, limit 
DCN 51202 
switches, and switch mounting brackets. Replace the following small bore valves: (1-DRV-77-, 636, & -1355; 1-TV-77­
619, -620, -643, & -644) including piping and 
fittings. Add relays in panel (1-9-4) and revise wiring such that flow 
totalizers for Drywell Equipment Drain sump pumps (1A & 1B) will only count when pumps are running. Replace flow 
transmitters (1-Ff-77-6, & -16) and delete converters (1-FM-77-6, & -16). Replace the following instruments, 
associated cables/conduit: (1-FSV-77-2A, -2B, -3, -15A, & -15B); (1-ZS-77-2AA, -2AB, -2BA, -2BB, -15AA, 
-15AB,­
15BA, & -15BB). Replace (1-FSV-77-17 & 1-TIS-77-17). Add lead shielding blankets to the 6-inch CRW unlimited 
access area drain header at Reactor building floor Elev. 565', Col. P/R-3, S/R-6, & S/R-2; and to the 4-inch drain 
header 
on Elev. 565', 593' & 621', Col SlR-2. 
y 
Radwaste 
Modify/upgrade RadWaste sump/pump controls to achieve the following: monitor and control sump level, replace 
y 
DCN 51597 
elapsed time meters, replace alternating action relay logic, replace manual leakage detection methodology, detect level 
signal wiring problems, control sump pump operation 
per existing level setpoints, provide a manual mode of monitoring 
and controlling sump levels, transmit sump level information to plant computer, provide quantitative inleakage 
information, and provide future monitoring and control capabilities. 
Spent Fuel 
Replace the following (1-LS-78-1A, -1B, -1C, 1
D, -1E, -1 F, & -1G; 1-PS-78-9, & -14), inclUding associated 
y 
Pool Cooling 
cables/conduits. Replace thermowells (1-TW-76-8, -13, 
&-18) and associated fittings. Cut and cap existing crosstie 
and Cleanup 
between (1-PIS-78-11 & -16) and rewire annunciator (1-XA-78-51) to differentiate when Pump 1A, 
or 1B, or both 1A & 
DCN 51203 
1B are running. Remove power from valve (1-FCV-78-62) to preclude spurious opening. 
-31 ­

land 
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
HU~Q; 
Spent Fuel 
Pool Cooling 
and Cleanup 
DCN 62160 
y
Replace flow switch (1-F5-78-51), and associated cables/conduit. 
Spent Fuel 
Install a 2-inch ball valve, a welded 2-inch nipple. a 2-inch threaded cap, and a 6-inch X 2-inch weldolet at various 
y 
Pool Cooling 
locations 
of Spent Fuel Pool Cooling piping (primarily at heat exchangers outlet to Radwaste) to facilitate hydrolazing 
and Cleanup 
and reduce dose rates. 
DCN 63631 
Fuel Handling 
Add grating and handrails to improve safety on Refueling platform. Replace entire fuel handling control; system 
y 
and Storage 
utilizing variable speed motor drivers, a programmable Logic Controller (PLC), a solid-state electronic load weighing 
DCN 51204 
system for main hoist, software defined boundary zone. protection, new position indication system, Updated controllers, 
an operators cab mounted display, new main trolley motor, new main trolley and mono-rail hoist power tracks, new 
main hoist assembly, new fuel grapple, updated video equipment, upgraded air system (per 
GE SIL 272), and an 
isolation transformer 
Primary 
Containment 
Temperature 
Monitoring 
DCN 51148 
Replace (32) thermocouples and relocate  (1-TE-70-7, -8, & -9). Upgrade cables for replaced thermocouples to 
environmentally qualified cables. 
y 
Primary 
Containment 
Temperature 
Monitoring 
DCN 51170 
Remove/delete existing Humidity Sensors (1-ME-80-36A & -368) and associated cables and conduits. These loops 
were originally intended to assist 
in determining drywellliquid leakage which is now monitored by drywell sump 
leveVflow. 
y 
-32­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
..........
Primary 
Containment 
Temperature 
Monitoring 
DCN 51232 
I>·. 
.,>. 
u 
;nanae··/ :    . 
:: ..•.............. /: . 
Remove/delete existing Humidity instruments (1-MIT-80-36A & -36B) and associated cables and conduits. Revise 
setpoint 
for (1-T-56-4, 2-T-56-4. & 3-T-56-4). Issue initial setpoint and scaling documents for temperature recorder 
loops (1-T-68-37; 
1-T-56-2, -3, & -4) for Reactor Water Recirculation and Reactor Temperature Monitoring. 
·············~~~(:r.p~19r1.9
y 
Standby Diesel Complete the Unit 1 connections to the Unit 1/2 Diesel Generator Unit priority Re-Trip logic by wiring connections from 
y 
Generators the Unit 1 Re-Trip relay contacts in series with the Unit 2  Re-Trip relay contacts, Relays 
(1 OA-K132A, & Band 10A­
DCN 51016 K134A, 
& B). Complete the Unit 1 connections to the Unit 1/2 Diesel Generator for ECCS preferred pump logic. 
Containment
 
Atmosphere
 
Dilution
 
DCN 51205
 
Replace the following valves: (1-FSV-84-8A, -8B, -8C, 
& -80). Replace control and power cables associated with 
y 
these valves, with EQ cables. New valves meet ASME Section III, Class 2, Seismic Category I, Class 1E, and 
10CFR50.49 (EQ) requirements. Add test connections, block valves, and test valves to facilitate Appendix 
J leak 
testing. Provide a backup source 
of nitrogen from the Containment Atmosphere Dilution (CAD) System to Drywell 
Control Air system. Provide a backup source of nitrogen from CAD to the Suppression Chamber/Reactor Building 
Vacuum breaker valves (1-FCV-64-20, 
& -21). Provide a backup source of nitrogen from CAD to the Hardened 
Wetwell Vent PCIVs (1-FCV-64-221. 
& -222). Modify the CAD Vent Pipe Control loop that includes (1-FCCV-84-19), to 
add 
an expansion loop to reduce pipe stresses and pipe support loads. Replace vaJious instruments. components, 
cables/conduit that are obsolete or to address EQ issues. Reconnect Trains A 
& B CAD nitrogen supply lines from 
their respective Nitrogen Storage Tank (A & B) to the 
U1 Drywell and Suppression Chamber. Replace Train A, CAD 
Vaporizer Power cable splice ($ES-153A). 
Control Rod 
Provide Control 
Rod Drive Housing (CRDH) lateral seismic restraints in  lower pedestal cavity. 
y 
Drive 
DCN 50985 
-33­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
·.~}'$t~mal 
•••••••••••••••·•• ·.p~~ia 
:A}J,!l!fJ:;: 
~ 
Remove Rod Sequence Control System (RSCS). Remove components of instrument loops (1-P-85-61A, -61 B, & ­
61 C) from panels (1-25-110 & -111), and abandon or remove associated cables. Remove group notch logic module for 
the Rod Sequence Control logic from panel (1-9-28). Remove Logic Card and Aux. Buffer Boards 
for the Rod 
Sequence Control Logic and handswitch (1-HS-85-3A1S12) from panel (1-9-27). Replace existing Reactor Manual 
Control System (RMCS) Automatic Sequence Timer (1-TMR-85-3A1S4) with two Programmable Logic Controllers 
(PLCs) (1-PLC-85-3A1S4A, 
& -3A1S4B) with one PLC being an installed spare. 
··.. ·•·•••••• ¢h~l.
 
Control Rod
 
Drive
 
DCN 51078
 
Control Rod
 
Drive
 
DCN 51206
 
Control Rod
 
Drive
 
DCN 51240
 
Replace obsolete CRD pump suction relief valve (1-RFV-85-505A). Replace valve (1-ISV-85-586) and relabel as (1­
y 
SHV-85-586). Replace packing for the following valves with packing to meet EPRI guidelines: (1-FCV-85-56; O-SHV­
85-500; 1-SHV-85-504A, -516A, -517, -552, -555, -556, -559, -561, -562, -563, -564, -565, -566, -568, -569, -572, -577; 
1-BYV-85-519A, 
& -551; 1-THV-85-527). Replace seal injection flow control valves (1-FCV-85-54, & -55) based on GE 
recommendations. Replace CRD system flow control valves (1-FCV-85-11A, & -11 B). Revise the N2 charging cart 
relief valves (1-RFV-85-604 
& -609) setpoint from 1150 psig to 1200 psig. The system design temperature for a portion 
of the CRD hydraulics return to RWCU system is revised to 545
0 
F. Install a second door to each Unit 1 Scram 
Discharge Instrument Volume (SDlV) cage. Modify 
SOlV level instrumentation to improve response time for inputs to 
the RPS scram logic by increasing diameter 
of piping, fittings, and valves for (1-LS-85-45C, -45D, -45E, & -45F) to 2­
inches. Disable and abandon Unit 1 low scram pilot air header pressure switches and associated pressure indicators 
(1-PS-85-35A1, -35A2, -35B1, -35B2: 1-PI-85-35A, 
& -35B). Remove Scram Discharge Header ultrasonic level 
detectors (1-LE-85-85A, -85B, -85C, 
& -85D). 
Replace obsolete pressure and level instrumentation of the Hydraulic Control Units with equivalent instrumentation. 
Y 
Replace scram pilot solenoid valves with qualified valves. Install a  continuous backfill to the Reactor Vessel Level 
Instrumentation System reference legs. Install Alternate Rod Insertion system scram and vent valves to meet 
Anticipated Transient Without Scram 
(AlWS) requirements. Refurbish CRD local panels. Install a differential pressure 
indicator across the CRD Pump 
1A strainer. Install a new permanent sample station to sample condensate flowing 
from the condensate storage tanks to the CRD drive water pumps. 
Replace obsolete flow (current) switches (1-FS-90-134B, 
& -134C) in panel (1-9-93) 
Monitoring 
DCN 50583 
Radiation 
IY 
Y
 
-34­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I$~:
 
r···············­
' ..;,;,::......;;".:.. 
-.. 
Radiation
 
Monitoring
 
DCN 
51171
 
Radiation
 
Monitoring
 
DeN 51241
 
Neutron
 
Monitoring
 
DCN 51079
 
Neutron
 
Monitoring
 
DCN 51158
 
Neutron
 
Monitoring
 
DCN 61728
 
Remove existing Containment High Range Radiation Monitor (CHRRM) Detectors (1-RE-90-272C, & -273C) and
 
associated cable and conduit from the drywell. Modify penetrations (X-46, 
& X-105A) by extending the penetrations
 
15-inches further into the drywell to house CHRRM detectors (1-RE-90-272A, & -273A).
 
Replace Air Particulate Radiation monitors (1-RM-90-50, -55,  -57, & -58). Replace Main Steam Line Radiation
 
monitors (1-RM-90-136, -137, -138, & -139). Replace flow control valves with flow solenoid valves, rework sample
 
lines, and add Appendix 
J test connections for:(1-FSV-90-254A, -254B, -255, -257A, & -257B). Replace Primary
 
Coolant Leak Detection (PCLD) Continuous 
Air Monitor, (1-RM-90-256), replace heat tracing and controls: (1-TS-90­

256, 1-RM-90-256, 1-RE-90-256-A, 1-RE-90-256-B, 1-FE-90-256, 1-HTR-90-256, 1-PMP-90-256, 1-PREG-90-256, 1­

XI-90-256, 1-XX-90-256A, 1-XX-90-256B, 1-HS-90-256B, -256C, -2560, &-256E). Remove (1-RE-90-133, 
-133A,­

134, -134A) and associated pre-amps, cabling and raceway. Rework sample lines for loops (1-R-90-133, -134, -131, &
 
-132. Replace drywell Radiation Detectors (1-RE-90-272A, 
& -273A) and install new cables, as needed. Remove
 
cables and raceways associated with (1-RE-90-272C, & -273C) in 
U1 Reactor Building.
 
Replace existing Power Range Monitor electronics with new Nuclear Measurement Analysis and Control (NUMAC)
 
digital Power Range Neutron Monitoring (PRNM) hardware to address GL 94-02. Install new Traversing Incore Probe
 
(TIP) system devices (NUMACs) to replace existing Drive Control Channels A thru 
E. Install TIP isolation reset Hand
 
Switch and a new relay for PCIS logic seal-in. Perform minor modifications to the Intermediate Range Monitors (IRMs)
 
and Source Range Monitors (SRMs) chassis and SRM Test Switch.
 
Replace Source Range Monitor (SRM), Intermediate Range Monitor (IRM), and Local Power Range Monitor (LPRM)
 
cables, detectors, and associated equipment within the drywell and specific portions 
of the reactor building and reactor
 
vessel.
 
Replace existing obsolete Unit 1 Neutron Monitoring 24V 
dc battery chargers (4). The new chargers have current limit
 
setting 
of 110%.
 
y 
y 
y 
y 
y 
-35­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
< 
.,. 
» 
::.'. 
..,.:}::.::."" 
i. 
:,:,.,. 
? 
i{ 
:> 
I 
,1 
Traversing 
Incore Probe 
DCN 51172 
Provide mounting, installation, and connection of Index Mechanisms (1-MCHR-94-1 01A thru -101 E), to include 
replacement 
of Indexer incoming TIP tube from Penetration (1-MPEN-1 00-35A thru -35E) flange to indexer and Indexer 
outgoing 
TIP tubes from indexer to associated LPRM detector assembly connection. Replace blind flange on each 
indexer tubing penetration listed above and connect it to the Drywell TIP tube 
to each indexer. Rework N2 purge 
tubing at indexers and change connection from outboard 
to inboard side of each indexer. 
Y 
Traversing 
Incore Probe 
DCN 51242 
Replace TIP Integrated Drive Mechanisms (1-MCHD-94-1 
01 A thru -101 E) with upgraded units. Upgraded units to 
include: DC Drive Motor, allow use of existing field cables, allow use of Gamma TIP style detector, and externally 
mounted motor starter. Replace TIP Chamber Shields (1-SHDP-94-101AJA, 
-1018/8, -101C/C, -101D/D, & -101E/E). 
Replace 
Shear Valves (1-XCV-94-506, -507, -508, 509, & -510) due to age and valves can not be non-destructively 
tested. Perform cycle and leak tests on 
TIP Guide Tube ball isolation valves (1-FCV-94-501, -502, -503, -504, & -505). 
Y 
Reactor 
Water 
Recirculation 
Flow Control 
DCN 51219 
Remove relays, indications, ammeters, resistors, fuses, instrument and power transformers, diodes, and handswitches 
from local control panels (1-LPNL-925-23, 
& -24). Install (3) Motor Management Relays (MMRs) per panel to provide 
Recirculation 
motor ground fault, overcurrent, phase reversal, and differential protective functions and trip the 
associated Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) and VFD feeder breakers. Install (3) Digital Frequency Relays (DFRs) per 
panel 
for redundant overfrequency protection. Replace Recirculation Pump Differential Pressure Transmitters (1-PDT­
68-65, 
& -82) with transmitters that have a 4-20 mA output signal for compatibility with control system software. 
Y 
Reactor 
Protection 
DCN 51080 
Remove condenser low vacuum trip logic. 
This was an anticipatory trip and no FSAR transient and accident analysis 
credit was taken 
for this feature. Delete CRD air header low pressure trip function. Replace obsolete time delay relays 
(1-RLY-99-1AK4, 
& -1AK48 in RPS MG Set Control Panels. Install test switches (1-HS-85-37AA & -378A) for testing 
the Scram Discharge Volume Vent and Drain Pilot Valves (1-FSV-85-37A, 
& -378). 
Y 
Penetrations 
DCN 51159 
Replace primary containment electrical penetration assemblies (EPAs) (1-EPEN-1 00-11 
OA, 100A, & -1 04F) with 
environmentally qualified EPAs. 
Y 
Penetrations 
DCN 51208 
Inspect, document, and install as necessary, fire banier seals for penetrations between fire zones (1-1, 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 
1-5, 
& 1-6) in Unit 1  Reactor Building. Replace Doors (490,635, & 670), including frames and hardware, in Unit 1 
Reactor Building, with fire rated doors and designations. 
Y 
-36­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
y 
Main Generator 
DCN 51133 
Provide back-up power source to the Main Generator Breaker Air Compressor System (MGBACS) to provide 
redundant capability for operation of the Replenishing Valve Control circuits. Add parallel diodes across Diodes R7D 
& 
R8D for Main Generator Exciter Firing Control Circuit to eliminate a potential single point of failure. Add a resistor onto 
the Maximum Excitation Limit Panel Component board and add a resistor onto the Transfer Panel Component board 
(43A 
& J2KX relays). The additional resistors increase the conditioning effect for the boards and eliminate noise in the 
ground circuit. Remove existing field isolators and install a programmable Field Temperature Module (1-TM-242-45) in 
generator exciter cabinet to recorder (1-TR-242-59). 
y 
Process 
Computer 
DCN 51082 
Provide for the installation of a new Unit 1 Integrated Computer System (ICS). This modification adds a new redundant 
process computer, operator work stations, printers, 
1/0 cabinets, I/O wiring, and interface to package systems via data­
link. Package systems include Foxboro IA System (includes Reactor Water Recirculation, Reactor Feedwater, 
Feedwater Heater Drains, Moisture Separator, and Generator Temperature Monitoring) Reactor Recirculation Pump 
VFDs, Condensate Demineralizers, Containment Isolation System, Neutron Monitoring, Generator Hydrogen, 
Radwaste Sump Level Control, Turbine EHC, MCR Annunciators, And MCR Recorders. 
y 
Civil Structures \ Provide modifications to the Drywell Platform structural steel at Elev. 584'. The modifications include horizontal rigidity I 
DCN 51019 bracing for the platform due to revised seismic analysis, revised piping loads, NRC IE Bulletin 79-14, added cable trays 
and conduit. 
Civil Structures 
IProvide modifications to the Drywell Platform structural steel at Elev. 563'. The modifications include horizontal rigidity I 
DCN 51020 bracing for the platform due to revised seismic analysis, revised piping loads, NRC 
IE Bulletin 79-14, added cable trays 
and conduit. 
Y 
Y 
Civil Structures \ Provide for the installation 
of new cable trays and raceway components in  the Cable Spreading Room, Auxiliary 
DCN 51088 Instrument Room, 
and Control Room in  Unit 1. Also, provide transition raceway components to interface with Reactor 
Building and Turbine Building cable trays. 
I Y 
-37­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
:':','::::'.:.....:. 
<::., 
» 
.:., 
'::<,.'.: 
'.'.':' 
..,.. 
~ 
~~ 
:. 
< 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51160 
Provide design details for cables requiring coating 
or beta shielding, for junction boxes and tenninal boxes requiring 
sealing against moisture, for junction boxes and terminal boxes requiring ventilation and drainage, and for sealing of 
conduits terminating at cable trays, all within the Unit 1 Drywell.  Additionally. provide details for replacing various 
Drywell junction boxes with boxes made 
of stainless steel. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51286 
Provide modifications to the Drywell Platforms structural steel at Elev. 604', 616', 
& 628'. The modifications are due to 
revised seismic analysis, revised piping loads, NRC 
IE Bulletin 79-14, added cable trays and conduit. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51374 
Modify the Unit 1 Reactor Building Elev. 551' Torus Access Platform structural members and associated connections. 
Modifications are to resolve identified platfonn deficient items such as insufficient welds, structural members, and 
anchorage. Structural components are added, modified, 
or replaced and field cut-outs and unaccounted attachments 
are evaluated and resolved. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51375 
Provide modifications to various structural steel platforms within the Unit 1 Reactor Building based 
on evaluation of the 
steel members, connections, surface mounted baseplates, anchorages, and/or evaluation of embedded plates. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51377 
Provide modifications to the piping penetration anchor frames 
in the Reactor BUilding. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51519 
Implement structural modifications necessary to qualify Miscellaneous Steel Support Frames (MSSFs) 
in the Unit 1 
Reactor Building zone, outside 
of the Drywell, to the reqUirements of GDC 50-C-7100 and Seismic Design 50-C-71 02. 
The MSSFs serve as structural attachment points for pipe supports and for secondary loads such as cable tray 
supports and HVAC duct supports. No new frames 
are added. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51520 
Provide for the modification 
of various steel platfonns for the Core Spray Valve Access platfonn and Control Rod Drive 
Relief Valve Access platfonn, and addition/modification of HVAC duct supports in the Core Spray and RHR pump 
Y 
rooms. 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51521 
Provide for modifications to the Unit 1 Reactor Building structural components required for A-46 qualification of cable 
tray and conduit supports. 
Y 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51560 
Provide modifications to the Reactor Pressure Vessel (RPV) insulation support frame (base ring supported at Elev. 
640') to ensure that frame displacements are within acceptable limits 
for support of Seismic Class I piping. 
Y 
-38­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
ql1~i'1{1#>1 
t»Y~1·· 
1<·····....·.. 
aOd 
,. 
~_tj 
Civil Structures 
DCN 51669 
Modify Seismic Class 
II items located in the Reactor Building, outside the drywell which, if not modified, would degrade 
the integrity 
of Class I items as identified by Seismic 11/1 Spray Evaluation Program. A total of eighteen outliers will 
require modification. One outlier identified by MSIV Seismic Ruggedness Verification Program, and located in 
the 
Reactor Building, is added to the scope of this modification. 
y 
Civil Structures IProvide steel frames for pennanent shielding at CRD suction/discharge lines, strainers/filters on Elev. 565' & 541' in 
DCN 60268 NE quadrant 
of Unit 1 Reactor Building to reduce dose rates. 
y 
120/208 VAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51085 
Replace the existing 1KVA ECCS Analog Trip Unit (ATU) Inverters with 5KVA inverters. Replace the Unit Preferred 
Motor-Motor-Generator (MMG) Sets with an rectifier/inverter Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS). Replace the Unit 
Preferred Transformer with a regulating type transfonner. Install/Replace various 120V Distribution system fuses and 
breakers for proper coordination, protection and/or support of downstream load changes. Modify breaker settings for 
proper coordination and protection. Structural support modifications are made associated with USI-A46 and Seismic 
IPEEE Programs for the Control BUilding. 
y 
120/208 VAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51214 
Various cables in the 120V Distribution System are added, replaced. rerouted, retagged 
or abandoned as required to 
support 10CFR50.49, App 
R, voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit, Design Criteria Requirements and cable separations 
analysis. 
y 
250 VDC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51110 
Various cables in the 250V Distribution System are added, replaced, rerouted, retagged 
or abandoned as reqUired to 
support 10CFR50.49, App 
R, voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit, Design Criteria ReqUirements and cable separations 
analysis. Modify the internal components 
in the 250V Motor Control Center (MCC) cubicles to support changes to the 
loads and cables. Modify breaker settings for proper coordination and protection. 
y 
250 VDC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51215 
Various cables in the 
250V Distribution System are added, replaced, rerouted, retagged or abandoned as required to 
support 10CFR50.49, App 
R, voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit, Design Criteria ReqUirements and cable separations 
analysis. Modify the internal components in the 250V MCC cubicles to support changes to the loads and cables. 
Modify breaker settings for proper coordination and protection. 
y 
-39­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
rc 
480VAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51131 
Various cables in the 480V Distribution System are replaced as required to support voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit 
and Design Criteria Requirements. Modify breaker settings for proper coordination and protection. Modify the internal 
components in the 480V MCC cubicles to support changes to the loads and cables. 
y 
480VAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51090 
Various cables 
in the 480V Distribution System are added, replaced, rerouted, retagged or abandoned as required to 
support 10CFR50.49, Appendix 
R, voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit, Design Criteria Requirements and cable 
separations analysis. A  new isolation switch is installed for the Electric Board Room Air Handling Units 1A and 1B to 
satisfy Appendix R requirements. Modify the internal components in the 480V MCC cubicles to support changes to the 
loads and cables. Modify breaker settings for proper coordination and protection. Modify the 480V Load Shed Logic 
for the Drywell Blowers for both Units 1 and 2 and the Control Bay Chilled Water Pumps A and B to satisfy Diesel 
Generator Loading requirements. 
y 
480 VAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51216 
Various cables in the 480V Distribution System are added, replaced, rerouted, retagged or abandoned as required to 
support 1OCFR50.49, App 
R, voltage drop/ampacity/short circuit, Design Criteria Requirements and cable separations 
analysis. Modify the internal components in the 480V MCC cubicles to support changes to the loads and cables. The 
480V Shutdown Boards 1A and 1B oil filled 750KVA transformers are replaced with dry type 1000KVA transformers to 
meet system load requirements. Isolation fuses are installed in 4160V Shutdown Board BD power feed to 480V 
Shutdown Boards 1E transformer to eliminate 
an associated circuit concern for Appendix R requirements. Remove 
LPCI Motor-Generator Sets and abandon in place the Reactor MOV Boards 1D 
& 1E. 
y(1) 
4kVAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51087 
Unit 1 
4KV breakers are replaced with new vacuum style breakers. Fuses are installed in  4KV Shutdown Boards to 
provide isolation of control circuit cables to satisfy Appendix R  requirements. 
y 
The removal of the LPCI M-G sets is unique to Unit 1. 
-40­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
4kVAC 
Electrical 
Distribution 
DCN 51217 
1>8' 
Various cables in the 4KV Distribution System are added, replaced, rerouted, retagged or abandoned as required to 
support 10CFR50.49, Appendix R AmpacityNoltage Drop and Cable Separations analyses. Replace 
the Terminal 
Blocks 
for the U1 Shutdown Board Cooling Units to complete documentation for the requirements of 10CFR50.49 
i~ti~Priiqtr~~o.i 
D~N()'~ 
.~ 
Y 
500/161 kV Off 
Site Power 
DCN 51084 
Add a provision to trip the Generator exciter field breaker when the turbine is tripped to prevent reverse power relay 
operation. Add a redundant Generator Backup Relay for tripping of the Generator to eliminate a single point failure 
of 
the Generator. Remove the Unit 1 Main Generator and Turbine trip initiations which are generated by the operation of 
the 64GF Generator Field Ground relay and add an additional alarm in the control room 
for operator action upon 
actuation 
of the relay to prevent unnecessary Generator trips. Install a blocking contact from Loss of Potential (Voltage 
Balance) Relay 160 into the Generator overcurrent trip circuit to prevent false tripping. 
y 
-41 ­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
;<~~1i~~i;'··········· 
-
-
.. 
JQ!7 
Miscellaneous 
Evaluate piping supports 
and their configurations against applicable requirements from General Design Criteria, 
y 
DCN 50995 
UFSAR Seismic Class I requirements, existing calculations, walkdown data, and NRC Bulletins IE 79-02 and 79-14. 
DCN 51012 
Perform piping support modifications as necessary to ensure piping and branch connections are qualified for 
DCN 51065 deadweight, seismic, and thermal loads. 
DCN 51066 
DCN 51067 
DCN 51068 
DCN 51069 
DCN 51254 
DCN 51261 
DCN 51263 
DCN 51335 
DCN 51336 
DCN 51338 
DCN 51339 
DCN 51340 
DCN 51341 
DCN 51342 
DCN 51343 
DCN 51344 
DCN 51345 
DCN 51346 
DCN 51347 
DCN 51349 
DCN 51351 
DCN 51352 
DCN 51353 
DCN 51419 
DCN 51420 
DCN 51441 
-42­

I
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
.... ~~~,,,".,.
>;Chahg··<~< .•.. 
.. -: :-.. """ :.: :.. ":".>:.'" 
y
Miscellaneous Evaluate piping, piping supports and their configurations against applicable requirements from General Design Criteria, 
DCN 51255 UFSAR Seismic Class I requirements, existing calculations, and walkdown data, for all Seismic Class I pipingltubing 
DCN 51256 less than 2.5-inch diameter. Perform piping and support modifications (including addition 
and deletion) as necessary to 
DCN 51257 ensure piping and branch connections are qualified for deadweight, seismic, and thermal loads at EPU conditions. 
DCN 51258
 
DCN 51260
 
DCN 51262
 
DCN 51264
 
DCN 51334
 
DCN 51348
 
DCN 51408
 
DCN 51409
 
DCN 51410
 
DCN 
51411
 
DCN 51412
 
DCN 51413
 
DCN 51414
 
DCN 51415
 
DCN 51416
 
DCN 51417
 
DCN 51418
 
DCN 51448
 
DCN 51449
 
DCN 51450
 
DCN 51452
 
DCN 51453
 
-43­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
:~iit~
1>L'2~1~ 
1·/.:';;;;':···:'·" 
Miscellaneous
 
DCN 51091
 
DCN 51642
 
DCN 60073
 
DCN 60074
 
Generator 
Cooling 
DCN 51140 
(EPU) 
~h~g9'> 
Replace safety related, quality related, and non-safety related fuses in the Unit 1 Control Bay, Reactor Building, and 
Turbine Building with like-for-like equivalent fuses. There are no changes to circuitry, no addition 
or deletion of any 
fuses, and no fuse-holder replacement, within the scope 
of this DCN. Unit 1 fuses, which are within the Operating 
Boundary 
of Units 2 or 3, are excluded from the scope of these DCNs. Fuses with common, Unit 2, or Unit 3 UNIDs, 
are excluded from the scope 
of these DCNs. 
Addition of flow and temperature switches (1-FS-35-65A, -B, -C and 1-TSITW-35-71 A, -B, 
&-C) to provide two out of 
three logic based turbine trip instrumentation. The new flow switches provide for a turbine trip on loss of cooling water 
flow to the generator. Provide for an increase in generator hydrogen pressure from 65 to 75 psig to support EPU 
conditions. Replace pressure switches (1-PS-35-18A, 18B, and -19) and revise setpoint (EPU). Recalibrate (1-PCV­
35-5A, -5B, and -9) in  support 
of EPU conditions. Eliminate Flow Integrator (1-FQ-35-8) to preclude potential hydrogen 
leakage. Add an excess flow check valve at the location where (1-FQ-35-8) was removed, to comply with fire 
protection code reqUirements. Replace obsolete Generator Seal Oil Vacuum Pump motor and 
gear box. Replace 
under-sized Generator Emergency Seal Oil Pump motor power cable to ensure minimum acceptable voltage. Replace 
Generator Exciter Flexible coupling per GE recommendation. Install Litten Veam Connectors/penetrations and 
Generator flux probe on generator housing. Add Foxboro I/A monitoring capability for generator stator and other 
related thermocouples. 
......,·u~,·:·::,' 
~NMN)I 
y 
N 
(EPU) 
Condensate 
Replace Condensate pump motors and impellers to accommodate increased flows required 
for EPU. Add an orifice 
N 
DCN 51401 
plate downstream 
of FCV-2-29A to minimize pressure drop through the valve. Upsize associated motor power feed 
(EPU) 
(EPU) 
cables, replace switchgear ammeters with appropriately sized meters, and revise protective relay settings. 
Condensate 
Replace Condensate Booster pumps and motors to accommodate increased flows required 
for EPU. New pump 
N 
DCN 51402 
motors are water to 
air cooled and Raw Cooling Water heat exchangers are added. Upsized current transformers and (EPU) 
(EPU) 
power feed cables 
for the associated pump motors are provided. HVAC air flows are increased to the Condensate 
pumps/motors as due to the increased heat loads 
of larger motors being installed. HVAC air flows are reduced to the 
Condensate Booster pumps/motors due to the reduced heat load from the new water-cooled motors. 
Feedwater 
DCN 51403 
(EPU) 
Replace Unit 1 Reactor Feedwater 
(FW) Pumps (3), the FW pumplturbine couplings, and associated bearing 
temperature and vibration monitoring instrumentation to accommodate increased design flows required 
for EPU. 
N 
(EPU) 
-44­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
I S~~~~. 
~.;:'-::' 
,. ->­,,:.>;. ::;.-.;.7" ~:7"::::~'r0? ,.:-:.:-. 
Retrofit the high pressure turbine with Advanced Design Steam Path (ADSP) to include a new rotor with new custom­
designed diaphragms and buckets for EPU. Modify the size 
of the steam seal unloader valves and associated piping 
to accommodate the larger steam flow requirements. 
'(tN) 
N 
(EPU) 
Main Steam 
DCN 
51481 
(EPU) 
Provide GE designed and supplied turbine replacement components, including monoblock rotors and diaphragms for 3 
LP turbines, in support 
of EPU. 
N 
(EPU) 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 
51457 
(EPU) 
Install a tenth Condensate Filter-Demineralizer and associated components such as, resin filter, holding pump, 
instrument panellinstruments, access platform, and demineralizer vessel shielding. Replace nine existing holding 
pumps with new, lower rpm pumps. These changes will maintain condensate flow below the 4000 gpm max flow rate 
for each Filter-Demin vessel at EPU conditions with one vessel out 
of service. 
N 
(EPU) 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 
51459 
(EPU) 
Replace the existing 
16" line and 16" air-operated butterfly valve that provide for condensate to bypass the steam 
packing exhauster (SPE), with a 24" line and a 20" motor-operated butterfly valve. Permanently block the orifice 
contained within the SPE in the partition plate that separates the inlet and outlet 
of the waterbox. 
N 
(EPU) 
Condensate 
and 
Demineralized 
Water 
DCN 51462 
(EPU) 
Replace 
71 Condensate demineralizer System valves and their associated pneumatic actuators with upgraded 
valve/actuator assemblies. Requires minor piping modifications to adjust face to face distances between flanges to 
accommodate the new valve bodies. Install new tube rack supports. 
N 
(EPU) 
-45­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
...
-
of
~l 
;:::::::::: 
~ 
Heater Drains Modify the shells, nozzles, and relief valves for Feedwater Heaters 1, 2, and 3 to be ASME Code compliant under EPU 
N 
and Vents conditions. Provide the Feedwater Heaters 1, 
2, 3, 4, and 5 pass partition plate modifications and manway stiffeners 
(EPU) 
DCN 51464 required for higher EPU pressures. Relocate the Extraction Steam nozzles on #3 Feedwater Heater and add a steam
 
(EPU)
 duct/impingement plate internal to the heater to protect the shell and to provide improved steam distribution within the 
heater. Modify the Extraction Steam piping to match the new nozzle locations. 
Main Steam 
Make changes to the instruments identified in the BOP Instrument Study in support 
of EPU. Replace various local 
N 
DCN 51466 
pressure gauges with new gauges and pulsation dampening snubbers. Re-calibrate various flow and pressure 
(EPU) 
(EPU) 
transmitters such that their ranges encompass new EPU operating conditions. Re-calibrate various pressure switches 
with new setpoints to account for new EPU operating conditions. Revise setpoint for pressure switches monitoring 
steam supply to Steam Jet 
Air Ejectors (SJAEs) from 180 to 187 psig. 
N(2)
Main Generator 
Upgrade Main Transformer system for plant operation 
at EPU conditions. The rating for each Main Transformer is 
DCN 51470 
increased from 400 to 500 MVA. Revise circuit for actuation 
of Lock-Out Relays (LORs) 186 & 186C to actuate on a (EPU) 
(EPU) 
signal from Qualitrol Multi Function Pressure Monitor 
(2 out of 3 logic) instead of from the sudden pressure relays. Add 
an interlock in the transformers cooling control circuit from LOR 186 & 186C. Delete interlocks from undervoltage relay 
127T, to meet single failure criteria for loss 
of Relay 127T. Replace fire protection ring header for Unit 1 Main 
Transformer due to new transformers configuration 
and to comply with present code reqUirements. Relocation of 
existing heat detectors and addition of (3) detectors. 
Modify the Unit 1 condenser instrumentation to provide for improved performance monitoring under EPU conditions. 
Condensate 
N 
and 
(EPU) 
Demineralized 
Condenser Cooling Water (CCW) supply and return temperature data to the ICS and provide 
CCW flow input to ICS. 
Water
 
DCN 51477
 
(EPU)
 
Improve the accuracy 
of condenser pressure inputs to the Integrated Computer System (ICS). Provide additional 
Already installed on Unit 
2. 
-46­
2 

ii~.tel .. ~ 
1.<D~sial1 <><>1· 
Ic,.,.,.:;o~ 
Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
...........>(.D.s~tiptl()l)()f~b.Og~[»: .< .... ::<: >•.. 
:.';'::;:::.::::':.:<.: ::< 
Feedwater 
Replace rotors for each Unit 1 Feedwater Pump Turbine 
(FWpn to include new stages 1 & 2 buckets per current 
N 
DCN 51482 
design and newly designed stages 3-6 buckets to support EPU conditions. Included will be newly designed stage 6 
(EPU) 
(EPU) 
diaphragms and (3) new mechanical overspeed trip governors, all furnished by GE. 
Feedwater 
IRevise thennal ratings of the Feedwater System for EPU. 
N 
DCN 62024 (EPU) 
Feedwater 
Upgrade seal injection for 
new Feedwater pumps. 
N 
PIC 63881 (EPU) 
(EPU) 
Gen Bus Duct
 
Cooling
 
DCN 60598
 
(EPU)
 
Sampling and
 
Water Quality
 
DCN 51185
 
Replace Isolated Phase Bus (IPB) duct cooling coil (1-CLR-262-1) with the new coil sized for 200 gpm flow and 2.5 
N 
million BTU/hr cooling to support EPU. Replace existing IPS duct cooling air supply fan (1-FAN-262-1) and motor (1­
(EPU) 
MTR-262-1) with two new fan/motor assemblies (1-FAN-262-1A, 
&-1B; 1-MTR-262-1A, &-1B). Delete existing wiring, 
cables, and control switches and replace with new Wiring, cables, and control switches to power the new fans/motors. 
Raw Cooling Water piping is modified to make the existing dual inlet and outlet piping to cooling coil, a single inlet and 
outlet configuration. Add Raw Cooling Water hydraulic calculations. 
Install a scaled-down Post Accident Sampling System for Unit 
1. See Technical Specification Task Force (TSTF) N 
Standard Technical Specification Change Traveler TSTF-413. The modified system provides a means to sample 
reactor coolant, suppression pool, and containment atmosphere at a sample station (1-LPNL-925-365). Included are 
additions 
of RHR liquid sample line and H2/02 monitoring gas sample line for the Post Accident Sampling System 
(PASS). Replace existing solenoid valve (1-FSV-43-14) with a Class 1E and EQ solenoid valve. New valve to be 
supplied with stem seal packing which meets EPRI Quidelines. 
Replace selected RWCU related instruments as a result 
of design/programs, age, degradation, & obsolescence. N
 
Water Quality
 
Sampling and
 
Replace RWCU Sample panel 
&provide sampling capability from Drywell sump pumps discharge to aid in monitoring
 
I DCN 51235 I identified & unidentified leakage & investigations. insiali guaiified ieak detectors for RWCU & related pipe rupture. I I 
-47­

Description of Modifications Planned for BFN Unit 1 Restart 
Annunciators 
DCN 51107 
Replace Unit 1 Annunciation System. New system to fit into existing panel spaces and has added capability to provide 
alann status and sequences from Integrated Computer System (ICS) displays using Programmable Logic Controllers 
(PLCs). Remove existing annunciator hardware, circuit cards, lamp holders, and wiring, inside and outside the 
annunciator window boxes. Install a mounting plate with two PLCs, ladder logic programmed Input/Output 
(110) cards, 
N 
relay cards, fuses, and tenninal blocks with multi pin connectors mounted inside each original Annunciator Window 
Box facing the rear 
of each Main Control Room (MCR) panel. Existing field wiring will land on new tenninal blocks and 
be jumpered to allow both PLCs to have identical auctioneered inputs. Modify MCR front panels, above each 
Annunciator Window box, to accommodate four Light Emitting Diode (LEDs), long-life bulbs. Existing 48V 
dc to 120V 
ac inverters are removed and replaced with two 48V dc to 
24V dc power supplies per MCR panel. Replace the 
current annunciator power supply 48V dc distribution system and Automatic Bus Transfer (ABT) switch 
in Panel (1-9­
9, CAB 1) with two fused distribution panels. Replacement of the Operations Recorder equipment will occur at one 
time using PLC based equipment Real Time Products (RTP) system and this installation will affect all 3 units. This 
system consists 
of two high density 110 racks and processors located in Bay 94 in the Communications Room. 
Existing light bulbs 
in the window box on panel (9-8) will be replaced with 24V LED bulbs on all three units. The 120V 
ac RTP will be powered from Unit 3 ICS distribution panel (25-525). 
Temperature 
Monitoring 
DCN 51165 
Provide for equivalent replacement 
of system 003, (Reactor Feedwater), system 056, (Temperature Monitoring), and 
system 068 (Reactor Water Recirculation) thennocouples, mounting hardware, and associated cables/conduits to 
satisfy component reliability due to age, time in  harsh environment, and degradation. 
N 
Temperature 
Replace obsolete Control Room temperature recorders (1-TR-56-2, -3, -4, and -37) with digital paperless recorders. 
N 
Monitoring 
DCN 51232 
Radiation 
Monitoring 
Delete 
Off Gas monitor (1-RM-90-160) and both Torus Area Monitors (1-RM-90-272B, & -273B). Replace Off Gas 
monitor (1-RM-90-157) with a suitable drawer detector to detect early onset offuel failure. 
N 
DCN 61999 
Radiation 
Monitoring 
Turbine Building Radcon Continuous Air Monitors (CAMs) (1-RM-90-51, -53, -54,  -56, 
& -59) will not communicate 
with the upgraded Control Room module. 
N 
DCN 62861 
-48­

UNIT 1 PROJECT SCOPE
 
COMMODITY 
APPROXIMATE PROJECT TOTAL 
Piping - Large Bore 
Hangers - Large Bore 
Piping - Small Bore 
Hangers -Small Bore 
Conduit 
Conduit Supports 
Cable Terminations 
Cable 
Large Pumps 
Large Motors 
Large Valves 
Small Valves 
16,366 feet 
1,745 
27,630 feet 
6,132 
162,159 feet 
(31 miles) 
19,299 
102,788 
844,319 feet (160 miles) 
21 
19 
1,066 
-8,000 

""'
 
NDE EXAMINATIONS PERFORMED FOR ORIGINAL, NON-REPLACED PIPING (sheet 1 of 3) 
SYSTEM 
LR DRAWING LOCATIONS TYPE 
EXAM COMMENTS 
RHRSW 
(A&C loops 
in tunnels) 
1-47E858-1-LR 8 piping areas 
UT thickness Scanned grid blocks 
susceptible areas 1 
at 
Drywell Liner 4 areas 
UT thickness Maintenance activity scheduled 
every 3 years during lay-up 
period 
Fire Protection 1-47E850-5-LR 41 piping areas 
(-200 feet of 
pipe) 
UT thickness Scanned circumference of pipe 
at susceptible areas 2 
EEcwJ 
... _-_ ...._... 
1-47E859-1-LR 
.........-.._----_ ..._---­
3 piping areas 
._----_... ....... 
-30 feet of dead 
leg pipe 
UT 
UT 
thickness 
thickness 
.._-.._-----_... 
Scanned grid blocks at 
susceptible areas 1 
Scanned grid blocks at 
approximate 1 foot intervals 2 
Rcw
3 
1-47E844-2 LR -60 feet of dead 
leg pipe 
UT thickness 
Scanned grid blocks at 
approximate 1 foot intervals 2 
CRD 
1-47E820-2-LR 
......-.__ ._-_ ....... ------_.._----­........_-­
1-47E820-6-LR 
6 welds 
6 welds 
UT shear wave and 
surface exam 
...-.. _-----­
-­---------_.. ._---------­
-_. __ ._-_....... 
UT shear wave and 
surface exam 
-
" ...._---­
CORE SPRAY 
1-47E814-1-LR 
14 welds UT shear wave 
surface exam 
and 
E-3
 

NDE EXAMINATIONS PERFORMED FOR ORIGINAL, NON-REPLACED PIPING (sheet 2 of 3) 
SYSTEM LR DRAWING LOCATIONS 
TYPE 
EXAM COMMENTS 
FEEDWATER 
....._---".......__ ._---------­
1-47E803-1-LR 
----_._­
27 welds 
"._-----­
17 piping 
._-_ .....__ ......--._-_... 
areas 
UT shear wave and 
surface exam 
..... -_ .....__ ...-.-------.... _._-_ .._---­
UT thickness 
-­-_ ... ---+----_.. 
.. __ ... ---.------------_.......... 
Scanned grid blocks at 
susceptible areas 1 
-.--.­
HPCI 
.......... 
..... _---­
1-47E812-1-LR 
--_._---_........-.... 
1-47E813-1-LR 
20 welds 
4 piping 
......... _-_ .. ------.-..-
areas 
UT shear wave 
surface exam 
....... 
UT thickness 
and 
--_. __ . 
.._-_ .._-..-..-.....-...... 
Scanned grid blocks 
susceptible areas
l 
at 
MAIN STEAM 
.._---_ .._----_... . .. _-_....._-----­
1-47E801-1-LR 58 
34 
welds 
piping areas 
UT shear wave and 
surface exam 
..._-_ .. 
.._-_ ......_-........_--_..... 
UT thickness 
----....-------_.. 
...-.-.----_.._-_._-_ ..._.. -
Scanned grid blocks at 
susceptible areas
l 
RCIC 
..._-----------­
1-47E813-1-LR 
..............._--..........._-----_._ .... 
8 
6 
welds 
piping areas 
UT shear wave and 
surface exam 
.........-..._----­................._-------_ ....._._---_._--_._­.__ ..-....._-----­
-----------­------­
UT thickness 
Scanned grid btocks at 
susceptible areas
l 
RHR 
1-47E811-1-LR 
35 welds UT shear wave 
surface exam 
and 
RBCCW
3 
1-47E822-1-LR 
1 Weld UT shear wave 
surface exam 
and 
E-4
 

NnE EXAMINATIONS PERFORMED FOR ORIGINAL, NON-REPLACED PIPING (sheet 3 of 3) 
Notes: 
1.  The piping was laid out with 4" x 4" grid blocks around the circumference of the pipe. Thickness
 
readings correspond to the lowest reading taken in each grid block.
 
2.  The piping was scanned around the entire circumference. Thickness readings correspond to the lowest 
reading taken around the circumference. Readings taken at approximate 1 foot intervals. 
3.  The majority of this system was in service with water flow in the system during the layup period. 
E-5
 

...
 
System Name 
Main Steam 
001 
Main Steam 
001 
Main Steam 
001 
Main Steam 
Cross-Under / 
Cross-Over 
001 
Condensate 
002 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
003 
Reactor 
Feedwater 
003 
Table 1-Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project· Piping System Replacements 
Inspection Method Used to Determine 
Description of the Piping System 
Location Work Method . System Integtity 
Refurbishment/Replacement 
• 
System component integrity wall 
• 
Satisfactory inspection Piping system remains unchanged 
Maintenance 
thickness measurements 
• 
Refurbishment of Containment Isolation valves 
Drywell 
Work Order 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
Replace drain line isolation valve 
• 
• 
System component integrity wall 
• 
Satisfactory inspection Piping system remains unchanged 
Reactor Maintenance 
thickness measurements 
• 
Refurbishment of Containment Isolation valves 
Building 
Work Order • 
Cleanliness Verification 
• 
Replace drain Ime isolation valve 
• 
System component integrity wall 
• 
Satisfactory inspection Piping system remains unchanged 
Turbine 
Maintenance 
thickness measurements except for the cross-under/cross-over piping described below 
Building Work Order 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
• 
Refurbishment of turbine control and stop valves 
• 
Unit 1 operational history 
• 
All of the Cross-Under piping (HP Turbine to Moisture 
Turbine 
Maintenance 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
Separators) replaced due to Improper material 
In initial piping 
Building 
Work Order 
• 
Selected portions of the Cross-Over Piping (Moisture 
Separators to Combined Intermediate Valve) replaced 
• 
Replacement piping was 2-1/4% Cr material 
• 
System component Integrity wall 
• 
Piping system remains unchanged 
Turbine 
DCN 51401 & 
thickness measurements 
• 
Condensate pump impellers and motors replaced for extended 
Building 
DeN 51402 
• 
EPU Impact on equipment 
power uprate operation 
requirements 
• 
Condensate Booster pumps replaced for extended power 
uprate operation 
• 
System component integrity wall 
• 
Satisfactory inspection Piping system remains unchanged 
Drywell 
Maintenance 
thickness measurements 
Feedwater check valves replaced for Steliite reduction 
Work Order 
• 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
• 
System component integrity wall 
• 
Satisfactory inspection Piping system remains unchanged 
Reactor 
Maintenance 
thickness measurements 
Building Work Order 
• 
Feedwater check valves replaced for Stellite reduction 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
E-12 

Table 1 -Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project· Piping System Replacements 
Inspection Method Used to Detennine 
Description of the Piping System 
. System Integrity 
System Name 
Location Work Method 
Refurbishment/Replacement 
•  
System component integrity wall 
• 
Minimum flow valves replaced due to wear experience on 
thickness measurements 
Units 2 and 3 
Reactor 
Turbine Maintenance 
•  
Cleanliness Verification 
•  
Minimum flow piping to condenser replaced with stainless 
Feedwater 
steel to prevent FAC 
Building Work Order 
003 
•  
Remaining piping inspected satisfactorily and remains 
unchanged 
•  
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
• 
Heater's 2, 3, 4  &  5 piping inside and outside of the condenser 
Learned 
replaced 
With 2-1/4% Cr material to prevent FAC 
Extraction 
DCN51116& 
•  
Units 2&3 FAC program results 
•  
Heater 1 piping remains unchanged 
Turbine
Steam 
Maintenance
Building 
•  
System component integrity wall 
Work Order
005 
thickness measurements 
•  
Cleanliness Verification 
•  
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
•  
Pipe sizes typically 2" and smaller replaced With 2-1/4% Cr 
Learned 
material to prevent FAC 
Heaters Drains 
•  
Units 2&3 FAC program results 
•  
Selected sections for Inspections/replacements based on FAC 
DCN 51116 &
Turbine
& 
Vents experience from Units 2 and 3 
Maintenance 
•  
System component integrity wall 
Building 
Work Order 
thickness measurements 
006 
• 
•  
Cleanliness Verification 
•  
Replaced Heater Drain and Moisture Separator Level Control 
valves for improved flow control and reliability 
•  
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
• 
Complete Iike-for-like replacement of Loop I carbon steel 
Learned 
piping
Residual Heat 
•  
System component integnty wall 
•  
Loopilinspected with no replacement required (continuously 
Removal 
Reactor 
thickness measurements on 
operated 
in support of Unit 2/3 operation 
DCN 51177
Service Water 
Building 
Loops" A" & "C" 
•  
Replacement of all four discharge flow control valves for 
023 
•  
Loop "8" & "0" In operation 
improved flow control 
supporting 
Units 2  & 3 
E-13
 

Table 1  • Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project· Piping System Replacements 
System Name Location 
Inspection 
Work Method 
.Method Used to Detennine 
System Integrity 
• 
Portions of system remained In 
operation to support operation 
of Units 2  and 3 
• 
System component integrity wall 
thickness measurements 
at 
selected locations of vertical 
main risers which were not 
replaced 
• 
Replacement of tubes 
containing Copper 
• 
Cleanliness Verification 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
Learned 
System component integrity wall 
• 
thickness measurements 
• 
IGSCC Issues 
Description of the Piping System 
Refu rbishmentlReplacement 
• 
Satisfactory inspection of large bore piping Large bore piping 
remains unchanged 
• 
Approximately 3000 feet of small bore piping replaced i1ke-for­
like due to corrosion caused by improper layup 
• 
Selected dead legs removed from the plant due to piping no 
longer required due to equipment changes 
• 
Other dead legs remain in place to support intermittent 
operations. 
• 
Replacement of the header and branch piping In reactor 
building with galvanized carbon steel to bnng system Into 
conformance with NFPA code 
• 
Satisfactory Inspection. Piping system and condenser 
structure remain unchanged 
i 
• 
Replaced and upgraded condenser tube material ,to Sea Cure 
stainless steel to remove copper from the 
system 
• 
Replacement of 4" & smaller piping with material changed 
from carbon steel to stainless steel (316/316L) 
I 
I 
• 
Complete large bore replacement WIth IGSCC resistant 
316NG matenals 
2" and smaller piping replaced with stainless steel (316/316L) 
• 
• 
Pumps and large bore valves refurbished 
Raw Cooling 
Water 
024 
All 
Buildings 
Maintenance 
Work Order 
Fire Protection 
026 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN 51180 & 
Maintenance 
Work Order 
Condenser 
027 
Turbine 
Building 
DCN 51113 
Emergency 
Equipment 
Cooling Water 
067 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN51192 
Reactor Water 
Recirculation 
068 
Drywell DCN 51045 
E-14
 

Table 1 . Browns ferry Unit 1 Restart Project· Piping System Replacements 
System Name 
Location 
Inspection 
Work Method 
Method Used to Determine 
System Integrity 
• 
IGSCC Issues 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
Learned 
• 
System component Integrity wall 
thickness measurements 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart/OperatIOnal 
. Description of the Piping System 
Refurbishment/Replacement 
• 
Complete replacement of piping With IGSCC resistant 316NG 
materials 
• 
Complete replacement of valves with 316L matenal 
Reactor Water 
Cleanup 
069 
Drywell DCN 51046 
Reactor Water 
Cleanup 
069 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN 51194 
• 
Complete replacement of hot piping (316NG) and regenerative 
heat exchangers (316L) (3 heat exchangers) 
• 
Piping rerouted to cool water before water enters pumps to 
increase pump seal life 
• 
Complete replacement of valves with 316L material In hot 
segments of piping 
• 
Complete replacement with matenal changed from carbon 
Reactor 
Building 
Lessons Learned steel to stainless steel (316/316L) to eliminate corrosion 
Closed Cooling 
Drywell DCN 51148 
• 
System component Integrity wall 
matenals 
In the system and drywelL 
Water 
thickness measurements 
• 
All new valves installed 
070 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart/Operational 
• 
Replaced "A" & "B" Heat Exchangers with upgraded heat 
Reactor 
Building 
Lessons Learned exchanger tube matenaL Entire heat exchanger replaced in 
Closed Cooling 
Water 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN 51195 
System component integrity wall 
• 
thickness measurements 
lieu of retubing eXisting heat exchanger due to cost 
considerations 
070 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
Learned 
System component integrity wall 
• 
thickness measurements 
• 
Units 2&3 Restart Lessons 
Learned 
System component Integnty wall 
• 
thickness measurements 
• 
Steam trap drain line replacement with 2-1/4% Cr materials to 
prevent FAC 
In lieu of refurbishment, replaced several large bore valves 
• 
• 
Steam trap drain line replacement With 2-1/4% Cr materials to 
prevent FAC 
In lieu of refurbishment, replaced several large bore valves 
• 
Reactor Core 
Isolation 
Cooling 
071 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN51196 
High Pressure 
Coolant 
Injection 
073 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN 51198 
E-15
 

Table 1 . Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project - Piping System Replacements 
System Name Location 
Inspection 
Work Method 
Method Used to Detennine 
System Integrity 
• 
IGSCC Issues 
• 
IGSCC Issues 
• 
System component integrity wall 
thickness measurements 
Description of the Piping System 
.. Refurbishment/Replacement 
• 
Complete replacement with IGSCC resistant 316NG materials 
• 
Large bore valves refurbished 
• 
Complete replacement with IGSCC resistant materials 
• 
Stainless steel material (304) was replaced with a high 
toughness carbon steel material A333, 
Gr 6 
• 
Large bore valve materials are stainless steel 
• 
Very short section of stainless steel material (304) was 
replaced with a high toughness carbon steel material A333, 
Gr. 6 to eliminate a weld overlay 
Residual Heat 
Removal 
074 
Drywell DCN 51151 
Core Spray 
075 
Drywell DCN 51152 
Core Spray 
075 
Reactor 
Building 
DCN 51200 
• 
IGSCC Issues 
• 
System component integrity wall 
thickness measurements 
E-16
 

Table 2 -Browns Ferry Unit 1 Restart Project -Piping System Inspections 
Program Inspection Classification Inspection Scope 
BWRVIP-18 - Core Spray 
Component Integrity Inspections will 
be 
·
· 
BWRVIP-25 - Core Plate 
performed 
· 
BWRVIP-26 - Top Guide 
• 
Partial 
IWI examinations were conducted in 
· 
• 
BWRVIP-27-A - Standby Liquid Control 
2001 to determine any major conditions. 
Reactor 
0 
BWRVIP-38 -Shroud Support 
Pressure 
0 
The visual examinations will be completed after 
0 
BWRVIP-41 - Jet Pump 
Vessel 
vessel flood up and water clarity has been 
re­
o 
BWRVIP -47 - Lower Plenum (CRD, Incore) 
established.
(IWI) 
0 
BWRVIP-48 Vessel Attachment Welds 
0 
BWRVIP-49-A Instrument Penetrations 
0 
BWR-74-A - Reactor Pressure Vessel (license renewal only) 
0 
BWRVIP-76 - Core Shroud 
0
· 
IWB Class 1 25% of piping welds accessible without removal of supports or permanent 
features for those systems not being replaced. Selection basis: system 
distribution, welds that had not been examined 
in the 1st Interval 
0 
100% of component supports 
0 
RPV vessel head and longitudinal shell welds
 
Section 
XI
 
0 
100% bolting 
Re-Baseline 
0 
100% accessible RPV interior and interior attachments (VIP) 
Inspections 
0 
IWC - Class 2 
. 
7.5% sample of welds on each system 
0 
100% component supports 
0 
IWD-Class 3 
. 
100% component supports including attachments 
E-17
 

~: ~~l3~"2..~..J C!Q1J$c/(:11\.u./?) A-c..i2.. S 
I 
c:s ~ff CSc,.() ~I!JU-2/ :;i ItJT S l./ ~ C(/WI ~I TT':££ /VI6e:i7,; C 7l:J 
~ 
~/SCUSS T3f2-trwNS~YI'UJJIT J.. f26's-il'\-i2.'1 ~ 
)-/~se ~'CwA'­
u p~ M'I i2ev, eu..> crt=-T1~ \'\'\ I'\-\--ta)AL I fUec.llIt.V 
I~ -nrc A<.~s sffl-1G F== Ari2... T1t"1s rnr£61, AJ G-::tA:rs 
~ 
~ {JP~T" "17~ TH:t-P(2.() "Jt<!::'\ B6-It--J lr-vt.J ~ fEA2...~AJ 
10 I?6S~T Uf.J,T.:/.. A-TTJH::. f3tZt:A.uus ~AJUt!-LEM2­
S~llo-tJ IS S'/~IJ'~I~to.JrI-Y ~A4~::4JS(!t).ptS.~ 
("vl-h\r ::cWcrt.;Lj) ~f6c:r TO sU ~ fh.J HPu~ 
f2tQU6S71Jt..J? 1-1~'S6 I4EAJ 6,v)4.l , 
::r=..:J ~DIncreJ "'ib i"1+t /-I s7 Q'? «veS /7t7JJ S. 71hE. 
Ik.(lS: h.s f26t( tb$~ oY=-TIt-€A-f>P,-, t..t4ur 70 A'b 1)e6f~ 
2:f.h4.vt. -nhf-ri'fLLtJkJ/
AJ
(;-~5ve.s/ 9vc.S77t?tV S 7'kft1.1 
..:zw(J1./lA') )../~ A~J:>tZtSS6b; 
6  SC:nn 1£ 'Vl.Ii...sr V AI-vcs ,4e.£ 7tl e.G.e.e, ve 
J,...\\I'C-L~ rpA-C.IC/~G.., }frtw W /irS IT DI£,-,;a,n/~ 
VJ~\hc.~ ~L.V\6..s ~ (Z1t:-~t/6-nrts /hOl)/Ht:A-Tl()')..)? 
tJ  Afl€ ALl-VA-J-v6S IN ~ ft.,J4..,..Jr 7}-MTPd2£/JoT 
6G,,,.H;' {2(£()~I4-CfE..i:> <;::0 J'foJG-TO 13 E TZ6Pfl-GJ£.6b 
$/~~ dJ~"f ~I£ ~()T 13~ 6f.~S6--b ~ 
StIW\r£. eo f~5 ? 
" ~~sP~c.17~ /l-f2.£.-?L-IJ#J~ ~ 
----__~tJrnl&-tJl~ 'TlJf2..J.s f 

•  Lul~T','1 PE:.. ~.:::4Js p~c-n~s ~1'5t611..J C­

~ o-J H (2,£ PJ2.dnc...'noJ S,/S7GmS? wIM-T
 
~CSPf2/tJllL.£IZ.~'S '1 
'6 ~GSC121R~ QlA4L..I A~71atJ/fZtt(v,4lll'14177o-tJ
 
?12o~ ~ J-/~S61> ~ W~/~S'~
 
P~5(f)J,...e L ,<l SSf';tJ'b') 7CJ g{)MltdTe. tbJ:> 
f}1IJJ tJrttlN LJ)J (r1, L.v 10M" S/Jt1 Vl-A 7lJ12. WiLl.. 
13~ US£:J> ::t:::..J T/Z14 1/'oJ I tV (;... ~n A.J~ <:!.f!l£Js('oJ 
61  O~~~~ y(N{L usnwz;r 7651p~C~ 
(~ ~f>~~1 SYSr6mS M A-"fJ1 
~5)~ 7Esrp~~, wtJo weLL B£ 
Pur~tNG-/l)r/Z-U\N1~17/tJt: ~ 7bSI 
~l 
-0 n~ )../sro-F rnot>lH eA
71
o.JS Pl,tJl-I~ Hrf2­
U IJ IT I J-.vu ~5 J-t 1C6. II-fra A-J7<LCrtvs T2uaJo-N 
Prz o~ (2A-yv1. t--J I~ ,.... 01U' ,4-u Lbt4 710;.) /5 IN 
??-1fc1£ ?n p~ 7Jo'.e tlJ0(2J~ :.J:;jSP6c£ 
TJJ-6 QuA--c,,/H; ~:'::>.:h:' spee;.r ;>51! /26VJ~ 
T7f-tf1'2t;..Suc:..TS ~~ 7&513 ~I/U)j> 
41  0Jt::--~ f}Jt. UIJ)T 1. ?fc,O:ICcTGv/}J-Sj{/U fI-A-v/L, 
~~~") /IS 10 ~ 77'h£lIl..Jll/2J 
tJ-1Sp;.,1E/2, Qt?U [)IT1 o-N 7JJt}N W 1lf..-tJ cf{l;/6IJJALlY 
hi ~S ~, k/rtu.J Cr'\-tJ nJ--A:=r Y3 t. tv/f6IJ muc..~ 
0{:-~ /EQ(J JPt1'1 e,.;T!J,v1> :S7f2<Jc,~.s lI-{Lt-,se. 
.s~J£ 30-y~s d'J-h ? 

-hJ-~LUS/a-tJ
./ 
~ tu-h4T ~)~ 
,,~~ ~,4-{l-D/N~ UIJIT.:L Pf2"w. ~ 
W -fir(Wv) ~T7 trtJ ~t.A IS Le J /{.JOYL 'D /1114'~ 
J 
~ hfUt;tu /tJ ~ ~frIPNL>,.d77o-,J f26.c~)/IJC
 
I-l fr-£~ 7'61J S/mJ .
 
I' CP>11,()~--rE. 17M-W~ 7CJ fZ61'lA21J V1J17j 
17J "cuuaii3 r?ffi?r; J (?~ af~17trtJ.. 77ft­
rt,h.JT5;JtJv~ ~ AhV6TO D~0fV5Tf2m7E: 
/BJr/UL6-Jt O'PrUraOo-J) As 2)£n~ JS'('il~ 
/VJ2<!-. ~ /iuD crP~77NG-/~/V(; 
) 
~U6~ 012. tt 'I~St tul#~~:ZS 
/JJ1z-s~r;r::.-i2-Pr~/{) U ~\ 
, 
I:h /..JD IT ~Ptrf'J5'1131A£ 77JtJr 71:hf..­
IJG~SW01.JJ--» c.v,v5/DU-~77IJ(2, A­
A/rtf GY7YUJ5/trI'! 70 A-P4jI-J~77~I/JAs 
NoT o{JJfI2tJ ~ Nrit p:t-t Pllsr go Y~.s 
11,71115 77t1?£' I---St F2.-1JJV7;J~~ 
11Prf-~ k5~Jklvtv nHJr77~ 
h.JW~6£-khJ5 ~/h;o~ 
cJ. 0 YbH-.5 ~ o-fJPi417101J , 

QUESTIONS REGARDING BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1
 
START-UP AND LICENSE RENEWAL
 
1.  Which systems were replaced entirely? Why were they replaced? Which systems were 
left intact? Which systems were partially replaced? What was the logic/basis for only 
partially replacing these systems? What is the schedule for future replacements? How 
much has been completed? How much still needs to be done? Regarding system 
replacements or partial system replacements, are there firm commitments or just plans? 
What are the criteria for replacement? 
2.  Which components were replaced? Why were they replaced? What was the logic and 
basis for the component replacement? How much has been completed? How much still 
needs to be done? Are there firm commitments or just plans? What are the criteria for 
replacement? 
3.  Discuss maintenance of Unit 1 equipment during the shutdown period.  Any unusual 
aging of systems, structures, and components (SSCs) during the shutdown period? 
What criteria were used for evaluation? What standards were used? 
4.  Which equipment was in lay-up? How was the lay-up performed? What standards were 
used? Were EPRllay-up guidelines used? If so, what standards were used prior to the 
issuance of EPRI lay-up guidelines? What kind of inspection was performed 
on the laid­
up equipment? What were the results? What criteria were used for evaluation? 
5.  What kinds of NDE were performed on equipment, cables, and piping that were not 
replaced? How did the equipment, cables, and piping fare since 1985? 
Is there a 
projection of when that equipment, cables, and piping would need to 
be replaced? Are 
the projections 
by analysis or engineering judgment? 
6.  Over the years since Unit 1 has been shut down, most of the BWR fleet has been 
modified 
in significant ways. Will Unit 1 be modified to incorporate these changes? 
(e.g., Materials? 316 L 
in recirc lines or MSIP or what? Core spray and RWCU system 
materials? Capping of CRD return line? Removal of LPCI loop selection logic? RWCU 
Pump and piping modifications? Will there be Hydrogen water chemistry? Noble 
metals?) Will there be Alternate 
rod injection? What work and/or inspections have 
been performed 
on the Shroud? Will Unit 1 implement the programs associated with 
the BWR Vessel and Internals Project (BWRVIP)? Explain the status of implementing 
BWRVIP programs. 
7.  How are the operators and other permanent staff being expanded to cover the additional 
requirements of a third unit (Unit 1)? How 
is the training for the additional crew 
members being provided? Is it a completely new crew or upgraded crew from Units 2 
and 
3? What are the major differences between Units 1, 2, and 3? EPGs are plant 
specific and were developed after Unit 1 was shut down. What EPGs are being used? 
8.  Is Unit 1 being modified in any significant way from Units 2 and 3? If so, will these 
modifications be incorporated into Units 2 and 
3? When will the simulator be modified? 
Which unit will 
it replicate? 
9.  Is Unit 1 in a separate security/radiological area from 2 and 3? Do permanent plant 

staff have free access to that area? 
10.  Explain the pre-operation and start up test program for Unit 
1. 
11.  What is the logic behind the sequencing of power uprates, license renewal and restart of 
Unit 
1? 
12.  Will the licensee perform large transient testing for Unit 1? If not, what testing is 
planned to support the extended power uprate? 
13.  Explain 
in specific detail how Unit 1 meets the requirements of Part 54 regarding 20 
years of operating experience. 
14.  
We would like to hear from the staff about what construction type inspections are 
planned during the modification period. Which inspection modules will they use? What 
is their estimate of man-hours to be expended in inspections? What tests will be 
performed? What has the staff asked for? What 
is the staff requiring, as far as 
construction information and component information. What 
is the staff asking for 
related to construction inspections, lSI and 
1ST? What does the staff already have? 
This project 
is like building a new plant, so the inspection effort should be similar. 
15.  We would like to see lists of piping and equipment to be replaced. A set of marked-up 
P&IDs would be helpful (but not required). 
16.  TVA stated that they are not taking credit for lay up. Does this mean that a full set of 
inspections to piping, systems, and components to remain 
in place for use in the rebuilt 
plant will have to undergo extensive inspections to declare that these piping, systems, 
and components are ready for service and will perform as designed. The regular lSI 
and 
1ST programs may not be sufficient unless they are expanded and supplemented. 

July 22, 2005 
MEMORANDUM TO: File 
FROM: 
John G. Lamb, Senior Staff Engineer 
Advisory Committee on Reactor 
Safeguards Staff 
SUB
..lECT: 
MEETING SUMMARY FOR THE JULY 20,2005, PUBLIC MEETING WITH 
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY REGARDING THE BROWNS FERRY 
UNIT 1 RESTART STATUS 
On July 
20, 2005, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) staff met with Tennessee Valley 
Authority (TVA) representatives at Region 
II Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. The purpose of the 
meeting was to discuss TVA's Browns Ferry Unit 1 restart status. The meeting announcement was 
made public 
on June 7,2005 (ADAMS Accession No. ML051590140). The meeting was classified as 
a Category 1 meeting. One member of the public, a newspaper reporter, was 
in attendance. 
Attachment 1 
is the list of meeting attendees. Attachment 2 is a copy of TVA's presentation slides, 
''Tennessee Valley Authority Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant Unit 1 Status." Attachment 3 is a copy of the 
NRC's presentation slides, "NRC Oversight of the Browns Ferry Unit 1 Recovery Effort." 
ABSTRACT 
TVA stated that Browns Ferry Unit 1 is on-schedule for start-up in May 2007. The current status 
is that 58-percent 
of the overall work is complete. 
MEETING SUMMARY 
TVA PRESENTATION 
Dr. William Travers, the Regional Administrator for Region II, opened the meeting with 
introductory remarks. Dr. Travers introduced Mr. Bill Couch, 
TVA Browns Ferry Site Licensing 
Manager, for the TVA presentation. 
Mr. Couch provided the introduction, described the agenda for the presentation, introduced the 
TVA presenters, then turned over the presentation to Mr. Jon Rupert of TVA. 
Mr. Rupert explained the recent Unit 1 organizational changes (see Slide 4 of Attachment 2). Mr. 
Rupert stated that the project schedule for start-up was on-schedule for May 2007 and on-budget. 
He described the significant milestones: torus work is complete, torus is filled, plan to finish 
drywell work 
in October 2005, plan to complete bulk work period for modifications in March 2006, 
cable pulling has just started, and plan to turnover systems to Operations 
in Spring 2006. 
Mr. 
Joe Valente of TVA explained that overall 83-percent of the engineering is complete. He 
described that the engineering input for programmatic submittals are completed. Mr. Valente 
stated that the following engineering activities remain to be completed: field support, system 
testing, surveillance instructions, post-maintenance testing, integrated testing, System Plant 
Acceptance Evaluations (SPAE), and System Pre-Operability Checklists (SPOCs). Mr. Valente 

stated that there are 63 tests for recovery. Mr. Ed Hackett, Director of Project Directorate II in the 
Division of Licensing Project Management of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation (NRR), 
explained that the staff has a challenging review of MELLA 
+, that the review may not be 
completed when TVA needs 
it, and wanted TVA to be aware of this challenge. TVA stated that 
they are aware of the MELLA 
+ challenge. TVA explained that the design work is on-going and 
they are working with General Electric (GE) and plan to submit the reload report to NRR six 
months prior to restart. 
Mr. Elvis Hollins of TVA described the modifications and maintenance accomplishments since the 
last meeting 
on September 9,2004 (ADAMS Accession 1\10. ML042880292). Mr. Hollins stated 
that the following were replaced: main bank transformer, large bore piping in the drywell, Reactor 
Water Cleanup (RWCU) piping, RWCU pumps, and fire protection piping on reactor building 
elevations 593, 621, and 639. He stated that TVA 
is currently working on the fire protection piping 
on the 565 elevation of the reactor building. Mr. Hollins stated that the main generator rewind and 
rotor balance are complete. He explained that the torus coating project is complete as well as the 
HPCI turbine overhaul. Mr. Hollins stated that work 
is completed on the torus fill, vessel flood-up, 
and fuel pool gate removal. He explained the following major work 
is in-progress: cable tray, 
conduit and support installation; large and small bore pipe replacement; pipe hanger installation; 
large pump and motor refurbishment; control room design review modifications; mechanical stress 
improvements of welds; 
GE in-vessel work. Mr. Hollins stated that the current status is 58-percent 
of the overall work 
is complete. 
Mr. R.G. Jones of TVA explained the process for returning systems to service (see Slide 
11 of 
Attachment 2). Mr. Jones explained that TVA has completed 16 SPAEs out of 
61 SPAEs and 3 
SPAEs are scheduled 
in the next six months. He explained that TVA has completed 8  Phase I 
SPOCs and 3 Phase I SPOCs are scheduled 
in the next six months. Mr. Jones stated that TVA 
has completed 3 Phase 
II SPOCs and 9 are scheduled in the next six months. Mr. Jones 
explained TVA's foreign material exclusion and vessel cleaning programs. He stated that TVA 
plans to perform the following as part of the Restart Test Program: component testing, post­
maintenance testing, post-modification testing, system testing, and integrated system testing. 
NRC staff asked if TVA plans to perform large transient testing. TVA responded that they do not 
plan to perform large transient testing and TVA plans to perform the same test program as they 
used for Units 2 and 
3. Mr. Jones stated that TVA plans to have the following plateaus for the 
power ascension over a 70-day period: 
25%,40%,55%,75%, and 100%. NRC staff asked if 
TVA plans to perform a Safe Shutdown test. TVA responded that they have no plan to perform a 
Safe Shutdown test. 
Mr. Joe McCarthy of TVA described the regulatory status of the license amendments and relief 
requests. He stated that TVA identified 
21 amendments that need to be completed prior to 
restart. Mr. McCarthy stated that 
TVA has submitted 16 amendments to date. He explained that 
2 submittals are pending NRC issuance of topical report safety evaluations. Mr. McCarthy stated 
that 4 amendments have been approved by the NRC. He explained that 6 amendments are on­
hold pending resolution 
of the Method 3 Setpoint Methodology. Mr. McCarthy stated that 5 reliefs 
requests were submitted and approved by the NRC. He explained that a risk-informed in-service 
inspection relief request is to be submitted for post-restart implementation. Mr. McCarthy stated 
that 
TVA identified 82 programmatic submittals; he explained that 29 have been submitted to 
date, 3 have been approved by the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation (NRR), and 9 have been 
closed by Inspection Reports. 

Mr. Brian O'Grady of TVA described the Browns Ferry site staffing plan. He stated that TVA used 
Oconee and Palo Verde as a benchmark. Mr. O'Grady stated that there will be a 30% increase in 
staff 
at Browns Ferry. NRC asked about Operator Licensing at the three units. TVA responded 
that the Operators will be licensed for all three units. NRC asked about the simulators at Browns 
Ferry. TVA responded that they have two simulators and one simulator will replicate Browns 
Ferry Unit 1,   which TVA will start using in  August 2005. 
Mr. Tom McGrath of TVA described the three programs that will address operational readiness: 
physical; people; and self-assessments and independent reviews. He explained that TVA will 
perform line self-assessments, site departmental readiness assessments, Quality Assurance 
assessments, nuclear safety review board reviews, Institute of Nuclear Power Operations 
assessment planned for Summer 2006, and independent operational readiness review. Mr. 
McGrath stated that the operational readiness will be essentially complete by Unit 1 fuel load 
except for specific post fuel load and power ascension testing activities. NRC asked if TVA can 
support license renewal inspection activities and TVA responded that they can. 
Mr.  Raul Baron of TVA explained the focus areas for Quality Assurance: welding, procedure 
change control, material control, coatings, fire protection, electrical installations, piping, pipe 
supports, control of work, and human performance. NRC asked about a violation in the area of 
piping supports. TVA stated that they have made process changes to prevent a recurrence. NRC 
asked about the type of employee concerns being raised. TVA stated that the employee 
concerns program have been raised 
in the following areas: painting in the torus, welding, 
coatings, and labor-relations. TVA stated that they have problems with labor-relations. 
Mr. Couch $tated that 
TVA has done this work twice before for Units 2 and 3 and have 
incorporated lessons learned from Units 2 and 3 into Unit 1. NRC asked about the TVA 
statement of Unit 1 being operationally the same a Units 2 and 3 and yet Unit 1 will be better that 
Units 2 and 
3. TVA stated that Unit 1 will have an operational margin better than Units 2 and 3. 
TVA stated that the modifications are being performed on Unit 1 first, then those same 
modifications will be performed on Units 2 and 
3. TVA stated that after the modifications that 
Units 1, 2, and 3 will be operationally the same. 
NRC PRESENTATION 
Dr. Travers presented the key messages: focus on safety in the ongoing review of restart 
activities, work closely with TVA, maintain open communications, and addressing emergent 
issues. 
Mr. Steve Cahill, Chief of the Reactor Projects Branch 6 in Region II,  stated that the initial 
inspections focused on Engineering Design Reviews, TVA Special Program scope and activities, 
and closure of NRC open items for 
Unit1 and now the inspection focus is shifting to address final 
closure of TVA Special Programs and closure of NRC generic open items (NRC Bulletins, Generic 
Letters, etc.). Mr. Cahill stated that the 
NRC has determined that the criteria for transitioning the 
following four cornerstones of safety have been met: Occupational Radiation Safety, Public 
Radiation Safety, Emergency Preparedness, and Physical Protection. He stated that the NRC 
sent TVA a letter dated December 29, 2004 (ADAMS Accession No. ML043650021) explaining 
the Reactor Oversight Process cornerstone transition. Mr. Cahill stated that the NRC Unit 1 
Recovery Issues List will be attached to the Region 
II July 20, 2005, meeting summary and will be 
made public. 
He stated that the NRC is going to establish a Browns Ferry Restart Oversight 
Panel and will continue to follow the Unit 1 Safety Conscious 
Work Environment. 

Mr. Ed Hackett described the status of the restart plan. He stated that the regulatory framework 
has been defined, an inspection framework is being established, and licensing actions are being 
worked. Mr. Hackett stated that the Unit 1 restart 
is scheduled for May 2007, the license renewal 
application approval is scheduled for May 2006, and the extended power uprate approval is 
scheduled for May 2007. Mr. Hackett stated that challenges exist for MELLA 
+, Method 3 
Instrument Setpoint Methodology, and restarVlarge transient testing. He explained the next steps: 
ACRS visit and briefing on August 23 and September 21, establish a Restart Oversight Panel in 
October 2005, supply an informational SECY paper to the Commission 
in the Fall 2005, 
completion of license renewal review 
in May 2006, and completion of the extended power uprate 
review in Spring 2007. 
TVA stated that they are paying attention to the fuel analysis methodology 
challenge, they are working with the Nuclear Energy Institute to resolve the Method 3 Instrument 
Setpoint challenge, and 
TVA does not plan to perform large transient testing as stated in its April 
25, 2005, letter (ADAMS Accession No. ML051170244). 
Mr. Bill Kane, Deputy Executive Director for Reactor and Preparedness Programs of the Office of 
the Executive Director of Operations (EDO), provided closing remarks. Mr. Kane stated that 
Browns Ferry Unit 1 restart has the attention of the EDO and the Commission. Mr. Kane 
emphasized early identification of issues. 
AFTER MEETING DISCUSSIONS 
NRC asked TVA about 
the process that TVA will notify the NRC when they are ready to restart 
Browns Ferry Unit 1. 
TVA stated that they plan to call the Region II Regional Administrator when 
they are ready to restart Browns Ferry Unit 1 and do not plan to send a letter requesting approval. 

MEETING ATTENDEES
 
REGARDING THE JULY 
20, 2005, PUBLIC MEETING
 
FOR BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1 RESTART STATUS
 
Organization and Title 
Bill Couch 
TVA, BFN Site Licensing Manager 
Joe Valente 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Engineering Manager 
R.G. Jones 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Restart Manager 
Jon Rupert 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Vice President 
Brian O'Grady 
TVA, BFN Site Vice President 
Tom McGrath 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Operational Readiness Manager 
Earl Riley 
TVA, Nuclear Fuel 
Greg Storey 
TVA, BWR Fuel Engineering Manager 
Elvis Hollins 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Mods 
& Maintenance Manager 
Joe McCarthy 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Licensing Manager 
Mark Lesser 
NRC, RIl, DRS, Chief, Engineering Branch 3 
Steve Cahill NRC, RIl, DRP, Chief, Reactor Projects Branch 6 
Chris Christensen 
NRC, RII, Deputy Director, DRS 
Joe Shea 
NRC, RIl, Deputy Director, DRP 
Mike Marshall 
NRC,  NRR, Section Chief, DLPM, PD-2 
Margaret Chernoff 
NRC, 
NRR, Project Manager, DLPM, PD-2 
Ram Subaradum* NRC,  NRR, Project Manager, RLEP 
John G. Lamb NRC, ACRS Staff, Senior Staff Engineer 
Eva Brown NRC, NRR, Project Manager, DLPM, PD-2 
Raul Brown 
TVA, BFN Unit 1 Nuclear Assurance Manager 
Ed Hackett 
NRC, NRR, Project Directorate, DLPM, PD-2 
Bill Borchardt 
NRC, NRR, Deputy Director 
Bill Kane 
NRC, OEDO, Deputy Executive Director for 
Reactor and Preparedness Programs 
Bill Travers 
NRC, RII, Regional Administrator 
Chuck Castro 
NRC, RIl, Director, DRP 
Bill Bearden 
NRC, RIl, Senior Resident Inspector Browns Ferry 
Brian Lauson 
Huntsville Times 
Craig Beasley 
TVA Communications 
&Government Relations 
Caudle Julian 
NRC, RIl, Inspector, DRS 
Steve Vias 
NRC, RII, Inspector, DRS 
Greg Cameron 
NRC, RII, Inspector, DRS 
Barry Miller 
NRC, RIl, Inspector, DRS 
Louis Lake 
NRC, RII, Inspector, DRS 
* via telephone 
TVA 
=Tennessee Valley Authority BFN =Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant 
NRC 
= Nuclear Regulatory Commission RII = Region II 
DRS = Division of Reactor Safety DRP = Division of Reactor Projects 
PD 
=Project Directorate NRR =Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation 
OEDO 
=Office of Executive Director of Operations 
DLPM 
=Division of Licensing Project Management 
ATTACHMENT 1 

.

.
 
BROWNS FERRY UNIT 1
 
NUCLEAR PERFORMANCE PLAN SPECIAL PROGRAMS
 
The Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant (BFN) Nuclear Performance Plan Special Programs 
are subdivided into two categories: those that require completion prior to Unit 1 restart 
and those that were completed for all three BFN units before the start 
of the Unit 1 
restart project. The Special Programs that require completion prior to Unit 1 restart 
were evaluated and designed for Extended Power Uprate and License Renewal 
requirements which were applicable to each structure, system or component. 
Special Programs to be completed prior to Unit 1 restart: 
• Component and Piece Part Qualification 
• Configuration Management -  Design Baseline and Essential Calculations 
* 
• Containment Coatings 
• Electrical Issues 
• Environmental Qualification 
• Fire Protection -  Appendix R 
• Flexible Conduit 
• Fuse Program 
• Instrument Sensing Lines 
• Intergranular Stress Corrosion Cracking (IGSCC) 
• Moderate Energy Line Break 
* 
• Restart Test 
• Seismic Design Program 
• -TVA has notified NRC that the Unit 1 program has been completed. 
Special Programs considered closed before the Unit 1 restart project started: 
• Heat Code Traceability 
• Secondary Containment Penetrations 
• Thinning of Pipe Walls (Bulletin 87-01) 
• Welding 
• Probabilistic Safety Assessment (Generic Letter 88-20) 
A summary of each special program that requires completion for Unit 1 restart is 
provided below. 

COMPONENT AND PIECE PART QUALIFICATION 
The objectives 
of this program are to: 
•   Verify that previously environmentally qualified equipment was not degraded 
on Unit 1 through the use 
of spare and replacement parts, and 
•  Have programs and practices in  place to ensure that previously seismically 
and environmentally qualified equipment, and any equipment qualified by 
other programs in this restart effort, will not be degraded in the future through 
the use 
of spare and replacement items. 
To accomplish these objectives for Unit 1, the following tasks will be performed for any 
EO equipment not replaced during Unit 1 recovery: 
•  Review 
of maintenance history to identify activities that included replacement 
of safety related components, 
•  For any replacement item that has not been qualified as part 
of the EQ 
Program, an evaluation will be completed to determine qualification, 
•  Evaluation 
of inventoried commercial grade spare parts to assure their 
subsequent use will not degrade previously qualified equipment, and 
•  Unit 1 procedures and processes will include all 
of the work developed as part 
of the Unit 2 and 3 restart efforts to ensure current and future qualification 
of 
components and piece parts. 
CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT -  DESIGN BASELINE AND ESSENTIAL 
CALCULATIONS 
The Browns Ferry Design Baseline Verification Program (DBVP) was established with 
the objective 
of reestablishing the plant design basis and to evaluate the plant 
configuration. This DBVP reestablishes the plant design basis. The system 
boundaries were selected by determining systems and portion 
of systems used to 
mitigate design basis events, as described 
in Chapter 14 of the Updated Final Safety 
Analysis Report (UFSAR), provide for safe shutdown and any other safety related 
function. Design basis changes resulting from later programs such as extended power 
uprate, Generic Letter 89-10, 10 CFR 50.49 Environmental Qualification 
of Electrical 
Equipment and the license renewal program have been addressed under separate 
programs. The DBVP evaluations ensure: 
1.  Plant configuration satisfies the design basis. 
2.  Configuration of systems and components within the scope 
of the DBVP is 
supported by engineering analysis and documentation. 
-   2   ­

3.  Plant configuration is in  conformance with TVA's licensing commitments. 
This was accomplished by four major tasks, as follows: 
1.  Establish Design Basis Input 
This task consisted 
of developing a series of key products, which ultimately formed 
the design bases 
of the plant. These items are: 
•  Databases containing licensing commitments made throughout the life 
of the 
plant and design requirements necessary to achieve safe shutdown. 
•  Design Criteria Documents developed from the above database and input 
from senior engineers were used to establish the required configuration. 
•  A  Safe Shutdown Analysis (SSA) 
of the FSAR requirements for identification 
of accidents, abnormal operational transients, and special events from which 
the plant must be able to achieve safe shutdown. 
•  Essential calculations needed to verify the adequacy 
of the design within the 
safe shutdown boundary. 
•  Test requirements which verify system capability using Baseline Test 
Requirements Documents. 
Much 
of the data gathered in the Unit 2 and 3 efforts was applicable to Unit 1 and, in 
fact, most 
of the products identified above were built largely by revising Unit 2 and 3 
documents to be Unit 
1 specific. 
2.  Establish Configuration 
This task was accomplished by implementing the following activities: 
•  Walkdown of systems within the DBVP boundary to verify functional 
configuration. Flow diagrams were evaluated and corrected as required 
based on the walkdown results. Review 
of input from walkdowns for other 
programs not related to DBVP, such as EO and Appendix R was used to 
verify the correctness of associated drawings. 
•  Verification of control/single line/elementary/schematic diagrams has been 
partially accomplished through a review 
of existing documents and 
walkdowns. Where walkdowns were not performed, the diagrams were 
modified via the Design Change Notice (DCN) process. Implementation 
of 
the Unit 1 Restarte DCNs will provide configuration control prior to restart of 
Unit 
1. Final verification will be accomplished by the restart test program. 
-    3   ­

•  Testing performed during the Restart Test Program to ensure specifications 
verify required functions. 
3.  Evaluate Configuration 
This task consisted 
of the following activities: 
•  Develop as-built drawings based on field walkdowns. These are known as the 
Configuration Control Drawings (CCD). Review 
of CCDs to ensure they 
accurately depicted system functions, and differences dispositioned. 
•  Review 
of Corrective Action Program documents to ensure adequate 
corrective actions were taken. 
•  Evaluation of other programs to ensure the appropriate corrective actions are 
incorporated into the applicable DCNs from the programmatic reviews such 
as EO, Appendix 
R, and Generic Letter 89-10. This effort is not a part of the 
DBVP scope but is performed in  conjunction with 
it. 
•  Evaluation of unimplemented or partially implemented changes for 
significance with respect to design basis. 
•  Units 2/3 DCNs were used as a basis to formulate the scope 
of effort required 
to return Unit 1 to service. The Units 2/3 DCNs were used as a 
representation of the current status 
of an operating BFN unit. It was the intent 
of the Unit 1 restart effort to make Unit 1 functionally identical to the operating 
units so that they would have a common design basis. This effort is not a  part 
of the DSVP scope but is performed in conjunction with it. 
•  Evaluation 
of components to ensure they perform their design basis function. 
•  Evaluation of test specifications to ensure that tests adequately verify 
specified characteristics. 
4.  Issue Design Output 
This task included issuing the following documents: 
•  Configuration Control Drawings. 
•  Calculations. 
As in Unit 
3, the DSVP for Unit 1 utilized a consolidated approach which was completed 
prior to restart. NRC was notified 
of the Unit 1 program completion on May 19, 2005. 
-    4   ­

CONTAINMENT COATINGS 
This program will establish the condition 
of the qualified protective coating on the 
surfaces 
of the drywell and torus and quantify the amount of unqualified coatings on 
equipment or structures inside primary containment. 
The presence 
of unqualified coatings is established through a combination of 
walkdowns, testing and review of contracts, vendor manuals and work orders. All 
applicable coated equipment and structures will be evaluated. Existing coatings that do 
not qualify must be either removed, reduced in film thickness to less than 3 mils 
or 
accounted for in  the Uncontrolled Coating Log. 
The condition of qualified coatings inside primary containment is established through 
walkdowns by qualified inspectors. The condition is recorded and unacceptable areas 
are repaired. 
Torus coatings below the immersion area were sandblasted to clean metal and a new 
qualified coating system applied. Torus coatings above the immersion area have been 
repaired. 
ELECTRICAL ISSUES 
The Electrical Issues Program consists 
of seven individual programs. These programs 
are: 
• Cable Ampacity 
• Cable Installation 
• Cable Separation 
• Cable Splices 
• Flexible Conduit 
• Fuse Program 
• Thermal Overloads 
Each 
of these is described below. 
Cable Ampacity 
In 1986 an audit revealed inadequacies in TVA's electrical design standards, creating 
the potential for undersizing 
of safety related cables at Browns Ferry. TVA developed a 
new standard, "Ampacity Tables for Auxiliary and Control Power Cables", which 
corrected all inadequacies. This standard addressed all ampacity requirements 
of 
Appendix R. TVA used this standard to determine the extent of non-conformance and 
to implement corrective action for any non-conformance on Units 2 and 
3. This 
program ultimately assured that cables at Browns Ferry Units 2 and 3 are not utilized 
above their rated temperatures and will be capable 
of performing their intended safety 
functions under normal, abnormal and accident conditions. 
-   5   ­

The replacement of V4 (480V power cable) and V5 (4160V) cables on Units 2 and 3 
was minimized and the use 
of original cable maximized through sampling and statistical 
analysis, aging analysis, and ampacity calculations utilizing tray loading profiles. 
Assumptions were made that Unit 1 cables included 
in trays containing primarily Unit 2 
and/or Unit 3 cables will not be energized. Approximately 3500 V3 (120VAC or 
250VDC) cables were reviewed during Unit 2 restart, with none requiring ampacity 
evaluations. For Unit 1, the intent is to abandon in place all V4 and V5 cable installed in 
tray and install new cable end to end. V4 and V5 cables in  conduit will be evaluated 
and replaced, as determined by evaluation. Unit 1 cables previously evaluated in 
support 
of Units 2 and 3 restart will be excluded from these considerations. 
Based on the results of the Unit 2 evaluation, Unit 1 V3 cables will not be evaluated. 
Cable Installation 
Based on concerns that had previously been identified at the Sequoyah Plant, TVA 
identified several potential installation issues that would be evaluated on Unit 2 to 
assure the adequacy 
of cable installations. These included sidewall pressure, jamming, 
pullbys, vertical conduit, cable bend radius and pulling cable through flexible conduit 
and condulets. Since the program established at Sequoyah demonstrated the 
adequacy 
of TVA installation practices in maintaining the integrity of cables during 
installation, it was used as a baseline for the Unit 2 evaluation. This evaluation included 
the following activities: 
•  Comparison 
of the cable installation requirements at Browns Ferry with those 
throughout the industry, including Sequoyah, during the period 
of Browns 
Ferry's construction, 
•  Comparison 
of the safety-related cable and conduit materials used at 
Sequoyah and Browns Ferry, and 
•  Plant walkdown inspections to assure the cable installation practices and 
quality 
of installed cables. 
Three additional issues were identified during the Unit 2  recovery effort. There were 
use 
of conduits as pull points for large 600 volt cables, missing conduit bushings, and 
Brand Rex cables. The Unit 2 tests and inspections resulted in limited replacement and 
concluded that Unit 2 was successfully enveloped by the Sequoyah program, with two 
exceptions; bend radius and vertical supports. These two installation issues were 
evaluated separately, largely found acceptable and limited corrective actions taken. 
The Unit 3 program included a review 
of issues evaluated for Unit 2, application of 
lessons learned, confirmatory walkdowns in  lieu of the evaluation program identified 
above, and focused evaluations based on Unit 2 results. The Unit 1 program will be the 
same as the Unit 3 program. 
-    6   ­

Cable Separation 
Cable separation problems were first identified in 1988 and TVA subsequently 
established a program to determine the extent 
of separation non-conformance, and to 
take the necessary corrective action. Discrepancies were grouped 
in the following 
categories: 
•  Non-divisional circuits associated with more than one safety division, 
•  Cables with an 
IE or IES suffix, or Q-List cables that were designated as 
either divisional 
or nondivisional and with questionable raceway routing, and 
•  Inaccuracies 
in cable and conduit schedules. 
For Unit 
2, TVA first validated the cable and Conduit schedule, then identified 
populations 
of cables with one of the above discrepancies. Cable separation criteria 
were developed and the populations were evaluated against the criteria. Corrective 
actions were implemented as required. 
The Unit 3 program applied lessons learned from the Unit 2 program in  the following 
manner: 
•  Applied an integrated walkdown approach, 
•  Used Unit 2 programs which evaluated Units 1 and 3 cables, and 
•  Evaluations were performed concurrent with Q-List development. 
The Unit 1 separation scope will be performed in accordance with the Unit 3 criteria and 
implementation precedent. 
Cable Splices 
Based on concerns about improper installation 
of heat-shrinkable tubing over electrical 
splices and terminations, TVA initiated a program consisting 
of two elements: 
•  Revision 
of the General Construction Specification G -38 and standard 
drawings to address installation problems. 
•  Walkdowns to identify and inspect all 1E cable splices and terminations 
located in  harsh environments. Splices which did not conform to standards 
were replaced. 
For Unit 
1, the scope of the splice program includes all 10 CFR 50.49 cables and all 
safety related cables below flood elevation. These will be identified via the 
EQ program 
and walkdowns. The total cable population will be walked down to locate splices; all 
of 
which will be replaced. 
-    7   ­

Flexible Conduit 
Original construction specifications at Browns Ferry did not adequately address the 
requirements for minimum and maximum flexible conduit lengths to allow for thermal 
and seismic movement. The current Construction Specification, G-40, defines the 
minimum conduit length for accommodating thermal and seismic movement. 
For Units 2 and 3 TVA inspected all flexible conduits attached to electrical equipment 
covered by 10 CFR 50.49 to verify that the lengths 
of flexible conduit satisfy G-40 
requirements for accommodating thermal and seismic movement. Conduits not 
satisfying G-40 were documented and technically justified as acceptable, or reworked to 
satisfy requirements. For unit 
1, conduits will be inspected during the walkdown of 10 
CFR 50.49 cables. The results will be documented and evaluated, with the disposition 
documented. 
Fuse Program 
The Browns Ferry fuse substitution list 
in place prior to Unit 2 recovery conflicted with 
the fuse substitution list contained 
in the Design Standards revised just prior to the 
recovery effort. Thus, there was insufficient evidence that installed fuses would provide 
adequate overload protection for Unit 
2. TVA's program to address this issue included 
the following steps: 
1.  Revise the Browns Ferry fuse substitution program control document to reflect 
the appropriate standard. 
2.  Perform calculations to the revised standards to specify and tabulate correct 
fuses for each application. 
3.  Perform walkdowns to determine and document installed fuses and compare with 
tabulations. 
4.  Resolve and document inadequate fuses based on comparison. 
5.  Replace fuse ratings on design drawings with fuse identifications. 
For Unit 
1, the fuse tabulation will be developed from existing common Unit 1, Unit 2 
and Unit 3 tabulations. Unit 1 fuses will not be included 
in the walkdown. Instead, DCNs 
will be issued to identify required fuses and replace applicable Unit 1 fuses, as required, 
based on calculations. 
-    8   ­

Thermal Overloads 
TVA identified the fact that design drawings for 480V 
ac and 250V dc motor control 
centers (MCC) did not specify thermal overload ratings for the heaters which provide 
electrical protection for the motors. The Thermal Overload 
(TOl) Program for Units 2 
and 3 consisted of the following activities: 
•  Developed criteria for sizing the 
TOl heaters for MCC circuits. 
•  Performed walkdowns of the MCCs to determine and document the installed 
TOl heater element sizes and nameplate data for each load. 
•  Prepared calculations using revised design standards (criteria) to specify the 
appropriate heaters for each application. 
•  Reconciled walkdowns with calculations. 
•  Replaced or adjusted improperly sized heater elements. 
•  Updated drawings to reflect current heater elements. 
The Unit 1 program will use the same approach, utilizing existing Unit 2 and 3 
calculations and worksheets. All Unit 1 
TOls will be replaced based on calculations. 
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALIFICATION 
The Code of Federal Regulations requires that equipment used to perform a necessary 
safety function is capable 
of maintaining functional operability under all service 
conditions postulated to occur during its installed life for the time it is required to 
operate. 
TVA determined that there was a systematic lack of qualification 
documentation for a significant part of the required eqUipment. 
TVA also determined 
that the significance of the problems and the programmatic nature 
of the root causes 
required not only a program that demonstrated compliance to 10 
CR 50.49 for all 
required equipment, but the development 
of an EQ program infrastructure. 
To demonstrate compliance, TVA committed to subjecting all equipment within the 
scope 
of 10 CFR 50.49 at BFN to new review, which was independent of previous EQ 
efforts. TVA will use the infrastructure developed 
for the Units 2 and 3 restart efforts to 
perform these reviews for Unit 
1. The following items or actions will support this effort 
as well as the long-term qualification of equipment for Unit 
1: 
•  Existing EQ program procedures provide the basis for maintaining EQ over 
the operating life 
of the plant. 
-    9   ­

•  Consistent documentation requirements, including the list of all electrical 
equipment located 
in harsh environments and required to function after an 
accident, and the 
EO Documentation Package provide documented evidence 
of the qualification of equipment for its specific application and environment. 
•  Incorporation of 
EO maintenance elements into ongoing maintenance 
activities for equipment. 
•  Training 
of EO personnel on specific EO related subjects. 
The elements 
of the EO review effort for Unit 1 include the following: 
1.  The 50.49 List 
This list will include electrical equipment located 
in harsh environments and 
required to function after 
an accident. This list is developed through the following 
steps: 
a.  A systems analysis to determine for each Design Basis Accident (DBA) 
those equipment items ("end devices"), which must either operate or "stay­
as-is", to ensure completion 
of a safety related function. 
b.  For each end-device, a review of drawings is conducted to identify those 
ancillary devices and cables required 
to operate or maintain electrical 
integrity to ensure completion 
of the end-device's safety related function. 
The end-device and the items added by this review comprise the 
Component Master List (CML). 
c.  The CML is reduced by performing a failure analysis which eliminates 
those components whose failure would not prevent achievement 
of the 
required safety action. 
d.  The elimination of equipment from the list that is  located in a mild 
environment. 
e.  An evaluation to determine if any components on the CML are located in a 
harsh environment, but do not experience it when they are required to 
function, and thus can be eliminated. 
2.  The EO Documentation Packages (EODPs) 
TVA has a documented process, including a detailed checklist, to direct the 
completion 
of documented evidence of qualification of equipment for its specific 
application and environment. A package will be developed for each Unit 1 
equipment type. 
-10­

The package will include: 
• Items comprising the equipment type, 
• Checklist for evaluation of qualification, 
• Analysis and justification of qualification, 
• Qualification documents, 
• Field verification data, and 
• Qualification Maintenance Data sheets. 
These packages will be subjected to a systematic verification process. 
3.  Collection 
of all data necessary to support EQ activities including design 
drawings, purchase contracts, vendor information, test reports and field 
verification checklists. 
4.  Long-term support of equipment qualification via maintenance, training,
 
warehouse inventory 
I spare parts and modifications I installations.
 
The implementation 
of the Unit 1 EQ program will be performed in  accordance with the 
Units 2 and 3 criteria and implementation precedents. 
FIRE PROTECTION -  APPENDIX R 
The Fire Protection Improvement Program for Unit 2 included the following elements: 
•  Compliance to 10 CFR 50 Appendix 
R, and 
•  Plant Fire Protection Program, which addressed: 
-Organization and staffing 
-Fire protection procedures and administrative controls 
-Evaluation 
of compliance with regulatory and industry standards and 
corrective actions to address deviations 
A report on improvements to the Browns Ferry Fire Protection Program to satisfy 
Appendix R requirements was submitted by TVA in  April 1988. The report contained 
the "Fire Protection Plan for the BFN", the "10 CFR 50 Appendix R Safe Shutdown 
Analysis", and the Fire Hazards Analysis for Fire Areas and Zones in  the BFN". During 
the restart effort, TVA proceeded with implementation of the modifications for 
compliance, based on the submittal. The modifications included items in the following 
areas: 
•  Fire detection, 
•  Fire suppression, 
•  Compartmentation, 
•  Circuit 
modi'fications, 
•  Cable modifications, 
-11­

•  Breaker and fuse upgrades, 
•  Addition 
of main steam relief valve backup air supply, 
•  Battery backup power supply for communications, and 
•  Emergency lighting 
The Unit 1 scope will focus on these evaluations and the modifications necessary to 
gain compliance with Appendix 
Rand NFPA standards. The major tasks that make up 
this scope are: 
•  Preparation of a Fire Hazards Analysis for Unit 
1, 
•  Preparation of a Unit 1 Baseline Appendix R Analysis, 
•  Performing modifications necessary to be in compliance with regulations and 
standards, 
•  Preparation 
of Safe Shutdown procedures utilizing existing procedures 
already in-place for Units 2 and 
3, and 
•  Preparation 
of a Site Fire Protection Report to include Unit 1. 
The intent of these activities is to achieve compliance with Appendix R while 
maintaining commonality between the units. 
INTERGRANULAR STRESS CORROSION CRACKING (IGSCC) 
The objective 
of the IGSCC Program is  to address all of the instances of Intergranular 
Stress Corrosion Cracking with long term resolutions. The scope 
of IGSCC susceptible 
piping and components was established by the guidelines of GL 88-01 and includes: 
•  Reactor Recirculation from the recirculation inlet and outlet nozzles to the 
connections with residual heat removal, 
•  Residual Heat Removal (RHR) from the recirculation system to the first 
isolation valve outside of the drywell penetration, 
•  Reactor Water Cleanup (RWCU) from its connection to the RHR system to 
first isolation valve outside 
of the drywell penetration, 
•  Core Spray from the core spray inlet nozzles to the drywell penetration, 
including the core spray inlet safe ends, 
•  Recirculation Inlet Safe Ends, and 
•  Jet Pump Instrumentation Safe Ends. 
-12­

The head spray systems are not included, because they will be removed from Unit 1 
before plant startup. The Unit 1 program is implementing the following mitigating 
actions: 
•  Full replacement 
of all IGSCC susceptible piping, safe ends and penetrations 
with resistant material, 
•  Stress improvements applied to new weldments, and 
•  Implementation 
of hydrogen water chemistry 
Additionally, 
TVA has already replaced all jet pump beams on Unit 1 and will inspect 
shroud head bolts, which have shown evidence of cracking at Browns Ferry and other 
BWRs, and replace them, as required. 
INSTRUMENT SENSING LINES 
The program to qualify Unit 2 and common instrument sensing lines was developed to 
address concerns with regard to slope, physical separation and quality classification 
relating 
to material control. The Unit 2 approach involved scoping out instruments and 
their associated sensing lines based 
on System Requirements Calculations, FSAR 
Chapter 14, Emergency Operating Instructions, equipment related parameters and 
maintenance history. Safety significance and equipment vulnerability screening criteria 
were developed using this information. The lines selected based on these criteria were 
walked down and evaluated using established acceptance criteria. Lines not satisfying 
these criteria were evaluated via calculations, and those not qualifying were modified. 
Reviews and assessments identified no specific cases 
of inadequate physical 
separation and this was supported by all Unit 2 reviews performed. Additionally, there 
were no specific cases of inadequate quality classification identified and the reviews 
supported this as well. Based on these results and on the review 
of physical plant, 
criteria documents and design specifications for Unit 
3, the Unit 3 program reviewed 
instrument sensing lines only for slope problems. The Unit 1 restart program will use 
the same approach. 
MODERATE ENERGY LINE BREAK 
Moderate Energy Line Breaks (MELB) are those breaks in liquid systems that are not 
high energy lines, but if they break could cause damage to safety related structures, 
systems 
or components due to the effects of flooding. A MELB evaluation has been 
performed for Unit 1 using the same methodology used for the Units 2 and 3 MELB 
evaluations. The Unit 1 MELB evaluation also considered design changes made 
for the 
planned Extended Power Uprate. The conclusions 
of the MELB evaluation were that 
-13­

BFN Unit 1 conforms to the original licensing basis and the existing flooding studies and 
protective measures are adequate. 
TVA notified NRC on June 25,2004, that the Unit 1 MELB program had been 
completed. 
RESTART TEST 
The Restart Test Program is conducted to ensure that plant systems are capable 
of 
meeting their safe shutdown requirements. The elements of the program are: 
1.  Review of documentation relating to operating, maintenance and modification 
history, as well as vendor recommendations to provide key input to development 
of system test requirements. 
2.  Development 
of baseline test requirements (BTRDs) for each required plant 
system to define scope 
of testing required, identify additional testing 
requirements beyond routine testing, and to identify requirements for tracking 
testing and evaluating test results. 
3.  Development of Test Instructions for each required system to identify specific 
testing to verify system performance consistent with specification requirements, 
and to track and verify completion 
of each test and evaluate results. These 
instructions, as well as the specifications, will work within the framework 
of 
existing procedures. 
For Unit 
1, administrative controls will be used to ensure that the status of operating 
units is considered during planning and scheduling 
of restart tests, as was done for the 
Unit 3 restart tests. 
SEISMIC DESIGN PROGRAM 
Two 
of the issues that comprise the seismic design program were closed for all three 
BFN units as part 
of the Unit 2 restart effort. These were secondary containment 
penetrations, whose physical work was completed due to its common nature, and 
miscellaneous civil issue, which was combined with other programs. The remaining 
programs that must be completed to support Unit 1 restart are: 
1.  Torus Modifications includes a re-inspection of torus attached piping and 
modifications to torus and torus internal structural components to verify that 
design drawings reflect the as-installed configuration. Discrepant items are 
identified, evaluated, and modifications performed as required. 
-14­

2.  Large Bore Piping and Supports (Bulletins 79-02 and79-14) involves completing 
the verification 
of as-built versus as-designed piping and supports. It includes 
field walkdowns 
of existing piping configurations, analysis to the current design 
criteria, and the required modifications to existing piping and supports to 
establish compliance with the design criteria. 
3.  Cable Tray, Conduit Supports, and the Seismic 
II Over II Water Spray programs 
address seismic qualification 
of the supports using the Generic Implementation 
Procedure developed by the Seismic Qualification Utility Group (SQUG). 
4.  HVAC Ductwork involves inspection 
of ductwork for attributes important to 
seismic qualification and analyzing them against design criteria to ensure as-built 
versus as-designed discrepancies are reconciled. 
5.  Small Bore Piping and Instrument Tubing programs are reqUired to address 
concerns about design criteria, incomplete support details and missing 
calculations for piping, and the need to consider thermal stresses for tubing. The 
resolution methodology for both piping and tubing on Units 2  and 3 included 
identifying generic attributes, performing rigorous analysis 
of 10 - 15% of the 
piping within the safe shutdown boundary to verify the attributes, and performing 
walkdowns based on these attributes. Outliers were identified, evaluated and 
modified when design criteria were not met. The criteria and implementation 
precedent used for Unit 3 will be used for Unit 
1. 
6.  Control Bod Drive (CBD) Hydraulic Piping program addresses a concern raised 
about the adequacy 
of CRD insert and withdrawal piping and piping supports to 
carry design basis loads. Units 2 and 3 tUbing were qualified via conservative 
bounding calculations to current design criteria, supported by confirmatory 
evaluations. Unit 1 tubing are being qualified using the same bounding 
calculations. 
7.  Drywell Steel Platform - Concerns addressed by this program were: 
• As-built versus as-designed discrepancies, 
• Structural behavior not completely evaluated 
or documented, and 
• Steel had not been evaluated for loads added since original design. 
The Unit 1 drywell program will use the methodology and design criteria 
developed for Units 2 and 
3. 
8.  Miscellaneous Steel program addresses configuration problems on 
miscellaneous framing installed throughout the Reactor Building during 
construction. The framing supports large bore piping and other commodities. 
The Unit 1 program will utilize the same design criteria, methodology and 
analysis tools used on Units 2 and 
3. 
-15­

ADAMS DOCUMENT PROFILE 
FOR SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
[Required fields in red] 
Originator: I JGL1 
Document Properties: 
Value: 
Item ID: 
Accession Number: 
Estimated Page Count: 
...... Date: 
10/20105 
-IIV-IIL Type: 
Meeting Minutes 
Availability: 
Publicly Available 
Title: 
Minutes of ACRS Plant Operations and Plant License 
Renewal Subcommittee Meeting on the Browns Ferry Unit 1 
Author Name: 
A ....... 
Addressee Name: 
Addressee Affiliation: 
NRCIACRS 
Docket Number: 
License Number: 
~L. ",. 
Document/Report Number: 
............, 
Ae.cove.y, L.icense Renewal, Browns Ferry Unit 1 
Package Number: 
Res~Clrt, 
Document Date Received: 
Date Docketed: 
Related Date: 
Comment: 
Vital Records Category: 
No 
Document Status: 
Media Type: 
Electronic 
Physical File Location: 
ADAMS 
FACA Document: 
ACRS 
Date To Be Released: 
Distribution List Codes: 
Contact Person: 
John G. Lamb, 301-415-7270 
Text Source Flag: 
Native Application 
Official Record: 
Document Sensitivity: 
Non-Sensitive 
Replicated: 
No 
ForeMost File Code (Latest): 
ForeMost Document Number: 
ForeMost File Code Set: 
"FI~II~ITY: 
ACRS-ACNW Document Custodians 
Owners (on all documents) 
ACRS Viewers 
NRC Users Viewers (only if 
not sensitive or 'internal only')