[PDF Metadata]
Pages: 30

[Content]
UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITIEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20555-0001 
May 15, 2003 
FROM: 
Tim Kobetz, 
ACRS 
SUBJECT:  
CERTIFICATION OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS SUBCOMMITTEE 
MEETING ON THE SAFETY EVALUATION REPORT RELATED TO THE 
LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION FOR ST. LUCIE UNITS 1 AND 
2, 
APRIL 9, 2003 -ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
The minutes 
of the subject meeting, issued on May 7,2003, were certified on May 9, 
2003, as the official record of the proceedings of that meeting. A copy of the certified minutes is 
attached. 
Attachment: As stated 
cc via e-mail: 
J. Larkins 
S. Bahadur
 
ACRS Fellows and Technical Staff
 
cc: ACRS Secretary 
E. Barnard 

UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20555·0001
 
MEMORANDUM TO: Tim Kobetz, Senior Staff Engineer 
ACRS 
FROM: 
Dr. Mario Bonaca, Chairman 
License Renewal Subcommittee 
SUBJECT: 
WORKING 
COpy OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS SUBCOMMITTEE 
MEETING ON THE SAFETY EVALUATION REPORT RELATED TO THE 
LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION FOR ST. LUCIE UNITS 1 AND 
2, 
APRIL 9, 2003 - ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
I hereby certify that, to the best 
of my knowledge and belief, the minutes of the subject 
meeting issued on May 
7, 2003, are an accurate record of the proceedings for the meeting. 
rj~ v~~ 
Dr. Mario Bonaca, Chairman 
License Renewal Subcommittee 
Date 

UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20555·0001 
May 7,2003 
MEMORANDUM TO: Dr. Mario Bonaca, Chairman 
Plant License 
ReneW~1Sub m~.ttee 
FROM:  Tim Kobetz, Senior St En r; 
ACRS 
SUBJECT:  
WORKING 
COpy OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS SUBCOMMITIEE 
MEETING ON THE SAFETY EVALUATION REPORT RELATED TO THE 
LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION FOR 
ST. LUCIE UNITS 1 AND 2, 
APRIL 9,2003 - ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
A working copy of the minutes for the 
SUbject meeting is  attached for your review. 
would appreciate your review and comment as soon 
as possible. Copies are being sent to the 
Plant License Renewal Subcommittee members for information and/or review. 
Attachment: As stated 
cc: M. Bonaca 
P. Ford 
G. Leitch 
S. Rosen
 
G.Wallis
 
cc via e-mail: 
J. Larkins 
S. Bahadur 
S. Duraiswamy 
I 

Issued: 05/07/03 
Certified: 05/09/03 
CERTIFIED 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
MINUTES OF ACRS SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON
 
PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
ST. LUCIE UNITS 1 AND 2
 
APRIL 
9, 2003
 
ROCKVILLE, 
MD
 
The ACRS Subcommittee on Plant License Renewal held a meeting on April 9, 2003, at 11545 
Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, in  Room T-2B3. The purpose 
of the meeting was to hold 
discussions with representatives 
of NRC staff and Florida Power and Light (FP&L or applicant) 
concerning the safety evaluation report (SER), with open and confirmatory items and associated 
supporting information, for the license renewal 
of St. Lucie Units 1 and 2. Mr. Timothy Kobetz 
was the cognizant ACRS staff engineer for this meeting. The meeting was convened at 8:30 AM 
and adjourned at 3:15 
PM on the same day. 
PARTICIPANTS: 
ACRS 
NRC Staff 
FP&L 
M. Bonaca, Chairman 
N. Dudley S. Hale 
G. Leitch D. Jeng 
B. Beisler 
P. Ford 
C. Julian A. Menocal 
S. Rosen 
P.1. Kuo 
G. Wallis 
G. Galletti 
R. Franovich 
J. Medoff 
S.Sheng 
S. Bailey 
There were no written comments or requests for time to make oral statements received from 
members 
of the public. Two stakeholders attended the meeting. A list of meeting attendees is 
available in the ACRS office files. 
ACRS SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION 
Dr. Mario Bonaca, Chairman of Plant License Renewal Subcommittee, convened the meeting 
and stated that the purpose was to review the staff's SER with open items related to the 
application for license renewal 
of the operating licenses for St. Lucie Units 1and 2. Dr. Bonaca 
then called upon NRC staff to begin. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 2 
April 9, 2003 
NRC STAFF INTRODUCTION Mr. P. 1. Kuo 
Mr. Kuo noted that there were 
11 open items at the time the draft SER was issued. Since then, 
all these items have been resolved. The staff will discuss the closure 
of these items and the 
inspections performed to support the review 
of the LRA. In addition, the staff will discuss the 
status 
of interim staff guidance (ISG) that has either been issued, or is  under review, to 
supplement the Generic Aging Lessons Learned (GALL) technical reviews. 
FLORIDA POWER AND LIGHT PRESENTATION Mr. Steve Hale 
Mr. Hale, License Renewal Manager for FP&L, was responsible for Turkey Point and St. Lucie 
LRAs. FP&L submitted the St. Lucie LRA in  November 2001, and received the renewed 
licenses for Turkey Point Units 1 and 1 on June 
6, 2002. 
The technical work performed on-site, was directed by the FP&L procedures used in 1996 in 
support 
of the Turkey Point license renewal effort. St. Lucie's PN&Ds, safety analysis report 
(SAR) and design basis documents (DBD) were all used for preparation 
of the LRA. In addition, 
FP&L made information trips to other license renewal applicants that have received a license for 
extended operation (e.g., Oconee). 
The St. Lucie application format 
is the same format that FP&L used for Turkey Point. The 
methodology is  described in Section 
2-1 of the LRA is the same as for Turkey Point, and follows 
the gUidance 
of Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) document 95-10, "Industry Guideline for 
Implementing The Requirements 
of 10 CFR Part 54 -The License Renewal Rule." 
Mr. Leitch questioned whether FP&L physically walked-down systems to look for potential 
interactions in  which non-safety related equipment may affect safety related equipment. Mr. 
Hale replied yes walk-downs were performed; that the approach FP&L took for seismic 
1111 
interactions was an area-based approach, which included all the non-safety related supports. In 
areas where there was non-safety and safety-related equipment, all 
of the supports and conduit 
were included. The only thing not included was the pipe because, from a design-basis 
standpoint, the pipe was never classified that way (Note: FP&L did eventually bring segments 
of 
the pipe into scope due to seismic 1111 concerns). Mr. Hale added that there was quite a bit of 
field work involved in developing the LRA. 
Mr. Rosen questioned which drawings were used to determine which non-safety related 
systems can affect safety systems, adding that just marking P&IDs would not seem to be 
adequate because P&IDs do not accurately represent the lengths 
of piping and component 
positions. Mr. Hale acknowledged that was true and pointed out that, because 
of that issue, 
FP&L physically designated areas that were in  scope. For example, at 
St. Lucie, there is a room 
which has some swinging switch gear on the 19-5 foot-level, where engineers actually wrote 
on 
a wall stating that "non-safety related pipe in  AB switch gear room," 
Mr. Rosen questioned whether isometric drawings were used at all. Mr. Hale replied no, 
because when coupled with on-site inspections and engineering walk-downs, P&IDs were 
adequate for that aging management program. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 3 
April 9. 2003 
When reviewing the regulated events, there was some other documentation used. FP&L has a 
control document called the "Appendix R Safe Shut-Down List." In addition, there 
is an item 
called the "Essential Equipment List; EO List," which 
is derived from the FP&L component 
database. 
In summary, for the scoping 
of systems and structures for St. Lucie, FP&L identified 39 out of 70 
systems were in scope, and 
16 out of the 46 structures on-site were in scope. 
In screening, the purpose is to identify structures and components which require 
an aging 
management review. The criteria FP&L used was component-level scoping. Once the entire 
structures in the scope have been identified, then the structure systems are scoped down to the 
component level,  and screened to determine whether it is passive or not and whether it is long­
lived or not. 
In the mechanical area, FP&L established evaluation boundaries and interfaces with other 
systems to ensure it captured everything. Specific structures and components were identified 
that were included in  the systems evaluation boundaries. FP&L reviewed the intended 
functions, and then identified which structures and components supported those functions from 
a passive standpoint and whether they were long-lived. 
Mr. Leitch stated that he was concerned that electronic components (e.g., power supplies) are 
considered active and are eliminated during the screening process. However, in revieWing 
industry operating experience there appears to be a growing trend 
of plant upset conditions 
(e.g., scrams) that are the result 
of failed electronic components. Some of these electrical 
components are active 
in a sense that the failure can be detected by maintenance procedures 
and surveillance tests, however, some 
of them are revealed only in failure which can scram the 
plant, or cause some other kind 
of upset conditions. Mr. Leitch questioned whether, 
independent 
of license renewal, there is some kind of a program to assess which electronic 
components whose failure could, all by itself, cause an undesirable chain 
of events. Mr. Hale 
responded yes, there are breaker programs which perform preventative maintenance breakers 
at FP&L. Active electrical components receive a lot of attention. FP&L also has some strategic 
plans looking at obsolescence 
of instrumentations and controls at St. Lucie and Turkey Point in 
terms 
of long-term life cycle management. Electrical components are also included in  the 
maintenance rule monitoring specifically related to some 
of those active components and 
systems. 
Dr. Bonaca noted that 
he was reviewing the pressurizer spray system and the screening 
process concluded that the pressurizer spray head should not be 
in scope. The reason given 
was that the function 
of the spray head is enhancing the efficiency of the spray and that St. 
Lucie can survive a fire event where the pressurizer spray is for protection purposes, however, 
the event can be mitigated without the enhanced effect 
of the spray head. Dr. Bonaca 
questioned whether FP&L performs any inspection 
of the spray head because the component is 
subjected to significant thermal cycles and, therefore, subject to breaking or cracking over 60 
years. Mr. Hale stated that FP&L took the position that the Westinghouse Owner Group 
originally took in its topical report (which was also used at Turkey Point). The aging effect is 
thermal embrittlement 
of stainless, not the fatigue issue. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 4 
April 9, 2003 
Dr. Wallis asked what the definition of long-lived is. Mr. Hale responded that around 40 years is 
the criteria used by FP&L. 
Mr. Hale stated that 
in the electrical and instrument and control (I&C) area FP&L took a slightly 
different approach to improve the efficiency its review. FP&L eliminated the active components 
up front because because 95% 
of the electrical components are active. For example the first 
time the engineers performed did a component download 
on our 40-volt system at Turkey Point, 
there were 18,000 components. It made more sense to eliminate the active categories up front 
and then deal with the passive components. One point to make clear for electrical components 
is that if something was 
in the environmental qualification (EQ) program, it is replaced on a 
qualified life. So even though some 
of these components may be greater than 40 years, the fact 
that it is 
in the EQ program allowed the engineers to eliminate it as a long-lived item. This is 
consistent with what previous utilities have done for license renewal. 
The screening results are summarized 
in Chapter 2 of the LRA and the details are presented in 
Chapter 3. There are four mechanical sections: rack and cooling system, connective systems, 
ESF, auxiliary systems, and steam and power conversion. In  the structural area and the 
electrical area FP&L provided license renewal boundary drawings to facilitate the NRC review 
the LRA and also included a SAR and boundary drawings. 
Mr. Hale next discussed the aging management review (AMR) which demonstrated that the 
effects of aging will be adequately managed so the intended functions will be maintained 
consistent with the current licensing basis (CLB) for the extended period 
of operation. Aging 
effects requiring management were established based on two primary areas: 1} the AMR 
technical resources available, and 2} operating experience reviews. The methodology used for 
determining the aging effects requiring management for non-Class I 
in the civil and structural 
area is  provided 
in Appendix C of the LRA. This is an approach that was originally developed by 
the Babcock and Wilcox (B&W) owner's group. It was then adopted by the other owner's groups 
and controlled by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) as the standardized tool for the 
industry to utilize. 
Even though St. Lucie is not a Westinghouse plant, there 
is a lot of good information that was 
developed 
in Westinghouse generic technical reports. In addition, the original NUMARC license 
renewal industry reports were used as well as B&W technical reports. FP&L established a large 
database from the Turkey Point aging management reviews that was used for St. Lucie as well 
as the GALL report. There are some unique materials at St. Lucie and, therefore, the engineers 
used materials handbooks and in-house materials expertise to address those issues. 
Mr. Rosen requested more information on some unique materials at St. Lucie. Mr. Hale 
responded that the Unit 1 refueling water tank (RWT) is  aluminum. There was no industry 
information for the use of aluminum 
in this application so FP&L had to research the aging effect 
of sodium hydroxide on stainless steel. Mr. Rosen questioned what sort 
of metallurgical issues 
were there with the aluminum Unit 1 RWT, and what evidence is there that it will last for 60 
years. Mr. Hale stated that FP&L had confidence 
in the tank because there is a program to 
inspect that tank regularly. There is  an epoxy coating on the bottom that has to be inspected 
that is identified 
in the LRA. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 5 
April 9, 2003 
Dr. Ford stated that the St. Lucie galvanic-aging program makes the case for one-time 
inspections 
of various structures based on an algorithm which takes into account galvanic 
series. 
Dr. Ford questioned whether the algorithm had been tested against observation, and 
could it have predicted this galvanic corrosion 
of this aluminum in the Unit 1 RWT. Mr. Hale 
clarified that the galvanic program 
is where there are dissimilar metals in treated water systems. 
That it is  a one-time inspection. Mr. Menocal added that the galvanic corrosion 
in the RWT for 
Unit 1 was at the tank bottom where there is  a galvanic couple on one 
of the lines coming in. 
The corrective action was installation 
of a liner. 
Dr. Ford requested more on this particular incident with the RWT noting that he has a concern 
about one-time inspections used to predict the validity 
of algorithms. Where is  the evidence that 
this methodology is  quantitatively correct? 
If you want to have one inspection to support 
extending the operating license from 40 to 60 years, that inspection better be at the right place 
at the right time. Mr. Hale noted that one-time inspections are performed 
in areas where aging 
effects are not expected to be found. If aging effects are found, then part 
of the corrective action 
may be to require additional inspections. Mr. Menocal added that since there are hundreds 
of 
potential inspection sites, FP&L is  trying to limit its inspections by systematically identifying the 
most limiting locations based on the galvanic series, the electrolyte, and the contact area 
between the anodic and cathodic materials. 
Dr. Ford stated that to make sure that the decision algorithm is  correct FP&L must go beyond 
that boundary and take into account areas which have undergone the galvanic corrosion such 
as the RWT. Dr. Ford again questioned whether the algorithm used, predicted the corrosion 
in 
the RWT. Mr. Hale replied that he was not sure a galvanic program would identify the RWT 
corrosion. Dr. Ford noted that, that was the point he was trying to make. 
Dr. Bonaca noted that the intake cooling water inspection identified a lot of small-bore piping that 
had corroded 
in the past 20 years and that FP&L has replaced 75 percent of it with a corrosion­
resistant material. However, there is  still 25 percent of the original. The LRA states, and the 
NRC accepted, that 
in the future, FP&L only is  required inspect the connections between the 
small-bore piping and the large-bore piping. 
Dr. Bonaca questioned why the other 25 percent 
that has not replaced should not be inspected. Mr. Hale stated that FP&L determined that 
leakage inspections were adequate aging management programs for those nozzles. The 
problem is  inspection techniques cannot get inside 
of that pipe. These are small-bore pipes. We 
can look at the connection, and that, typically, will be worst case. A combination of the crawl­
through inspections are used 
in addition to periodic leakage inspections externally. The basis 
for saying leakage inspections are acceptable is  that it  is  an open-cooling water system, and 
there is  margin. As a result 
of St. Lucie operating experience if there is  a leak, it is  small, not 
catastrophic. 
Mr. Hale continued with the presentation noting that 
in Chapter 3 of the LRA components 
grouped the same way they were presented 
in Chapter 2. The results are presented in six­
column tables. These are consistent with what FP&L prepared for Turkey Point. The basis for 
the aging effects 
for the non-Class' are described in Appendix C of the LRA. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 6 
April 9, 2003 
For the GALL comparisons FP&L flagged differences between the component listing in GALL 
versus the St. Lucie component listing. In general, FP&L listed what the differences 
in materials 
in internal and external environments between GALL and St. Lucie. 
Mr. Beisler, a civil engineer for FPL stated that the staff asked FP&L to address two questions 
regarding the aging concrete, specifically the concrete below ground water. One had to do with 
phosphates and how that affects the concrete, and the second one has to do with corrosion of 
rebar and how that is managed. 
During the license renewal process, FP&L had not come across any issues associated with the 
phosphates 
in the soil or the ground water affecting our buried concrete. FP&L did review the 
technical documentation 
in an attempt to identify find any information regarding phosphates. 
In general, there was no limitations on phosphates in the American Concrete Institute (ACI) 
documents that FP&L reviewed. 
In addition, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
(ASME) Code Section III requirements for concrete reactor vessels and containments contained 
no information 
on phosphates. The American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) 
standards for the constituent materials for the concrete, the cement, the aggregates, did not 
contain limitations even 
on phosphates in the constituent materials. The EPRI documents that 
address license renewal also did not discuss any aging effects due to phosphates. 
Next, FP&L contacted an expert at a large architectural and engineering firm who also could not 
find information 
in the technical documents regarding how phosphates affect concrete. The 
expert did some quick research and provided a brief write-up on what he was able to find. 
Basically, the expert found that phosphates are not very soluble 
in water in all ranges of pH, 
which 
is contrary to what you find with chlorides and sulfates, which are the main culprits in 
concrete degradation. Those are very soluble, so they are able to penetrate into the concrete, 
especially lesser-grade concretes and cause degradation. Additionally, he told us that typical 
ranges 
of phosphates and soil or ground water in the neighborhood of 500 to 100 PPM total 
phosphates, but most 
of that is fixed, meaning that it cannot be transported to the concrete to 
cause the degradation. 
Nearly all the water soluble phosphates are converted to non-soluble shortly after, 
if they do 
come into contact with the concrete, shortly after they are not able to penetrate into the 
concrete. 
Of course, the phosphates, in general, are not harmful to the rebar. If there was any 
effect, it would affect the high alkalinity 
of concrete. So expert's conclusion, based on his 
research, supported the industry technical documents that the phosphates are not a contributor 
to degradation 
of concrete. 
For the St. Lucie plant, FP&L recognized from the very beginning that the ground water was 
aggressive. The chlorides are higher than the pUblished thresholds. The sulfates are higher 
than the published thresholds, so FP&L recognized from the very beginning that it  needed to 
manage our concrete below ground water and stated that 
in the LRA. 
Mr. Kobetz requested a copy of the paper that the expert prepared for FP&L on phosphates. 
Mr. Beisler responded that it is not a published paper, rather something that the expert put 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 7 
April 9, 2003 
together very quickly based on some quick research, and discussions with some university 
professors. Mr. Kobetz recommended FP&L consider trying to provide something prior to the 
full Committee Meeting 
in an effort shorten the discussions in this area. 
Mr. Seisler noted that the way to prevent the corrosion 
of rebar is  with the use of high-quality 
concrete. FP&L reviewed ACI 
201 which recommend a water/cement ratio less than 0.45 for 
durability. St. Lucie structures exposed to ground water were all speci'fied at less than or equal 
or 0.44. 
The AC1201, dated 1977, recommends the ASTM C150 type five cement. However, the 
construction of St. Lucie predated 1977 and used type two cement, which was the preferred 
cement at that time for sulfate resistance. Also, the ACI document recommends an appropriate 
air entrapment be used; for St. Lucie, the range of air entrapment was two and a half to nine­
percent based 
on what size aggregate is  used in the concrete. This all met the ACI 
requirements. 
In  addition, the ACI document recommends the following: moist curing for seven days, and St. 
Lucie required seven to 14 days; high-quality constituent materials, including aggregates per the 
ASTM C33, cement, ASTM C150, and very clean water, and all those are included 
in the St. 
Lucie concrete; and one and a half or, preferably, two inches 
of concrete cover. St. Lucie 
structures all have a minimum 
of three inches, and, in fact, the structures that are exposed to 
ground water have even more cover, in some cases up to five or six inches 
of cover, which is 
specified on the individual drawings for the specific structures. 
Concrete exposed to salt water should have a 28-day strength of, at least, 5,000 PSI. For St. 
Lucie Unit 
1, the specification required 4,000 PSI, but the actual strengths of the concrete 
breaks, 
in general, were all over 5,000 PSI. 
Mr. Seisler also noted that there is  a program that includes visual inspections 
of exposed interior 
and exterior surfaces 
of the concrete looking for signs of degradations, specifically corrosion of 
the rebar, in which case you would see cracking, rust staining possibly, and spalling, although, 
usually, it never gets to that point. The program now includes inspections 
of buried structures, 
which are excavated for whatever reason. 
Mr. Hale noted that for each aging effect requiring management, FP&L identified aging 
management programs on a component basis. Supporting that is  an evaluation on-site which 
goes through an assessment 
of the GALL attributes versus FP&L program attributes, as well as 
the general program description and the criteria for the program. Those are documented 
in 
program basis documents on-site. 
Mr. Leitch questioned whether St. Lucie will be able to fully comply with the new NRC Order 
related to vessel head penetration inspections. There is a plant similar to St. Lucie that is having 
some difficulty fully complying with that order because 
it, and St. Lucie, have guide sleeves or 
thermal sleeves 
in the CRDM penetrations, that make it  difficult obtain the required data. Mr. 
Hale responded that St. Lucie has the guide sleeves 
on Unit 1, and, in anticipation of that 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 8 
April 9, 2003 
question, Mr. Hale provided Mr. Leitch the 3D-day inspection report that was issued after the 100 
percent visual inspection was completed. FP&L performed a  100 percent visual and 100 
percent ultrasonic test on Unit 1 last refueling outage, and the 3D-day report to summarizes the 
findings. There was no indication 
of leakage, and  no indications of cracking on Unit 1. Unit 2 
does not have these types of sleeves. 
Mr. Leitch questioned whether a decision has been made whether to replace the reactor vessel 
head at St. Lucie. Mr. Hale stated no decision has been made for St. Lucie, however, at Turkey 
Point, the heads will be replaced in 2004 and 2005, even though there has not been an 
indication 
of leakage. 
Mr. Hale next discussed various aging management programs for St. Lucie including the flow 
accelerated corrosion program, the reactor vessel internals program, and the Alloy 600 
program. 
Mr. Rosen questioned whether the reactor vessel internals program evaluates how well repairs 
made to the reactor vessel will perform over the extended license term. Mr. Hale replied no, 
however, the program goes beyond what must be performed 
in accordance with ASME Code 
Section XI. St. Lucie is already committed under ASME Code Section XI to perform inspections 
and follow-up with regard to the barrel repairs. The reactor vessel internals program addresses 
some 
of the more research-type issues, such as the effect of radiation embrittlement, radiation­
assisted primary water, there is a whole series of items right now that are being investigated 
under the MRP. 
In conclusion, the aging management programs at 
St. Lucie, have demonstrated they'll manage 
the aging effects, so the intended functions will 
be maintained consistent with our CLB. For all 
the time-limited aging analyses (TLAA) for St. Lucie have been evaluated and shown to be 
acceptable for the extended period of operation. 
NRC STAFF OVERVIEW OF THE SAFETY EVALUATION REPORT AND STATUS OF OPEN 
ITEMS Mr. Noel Dudley and Mr. James Medoff 
Noel Dudley, project manager for the St. Lucie license renewal application, provided a brief 
overview 
of the staff's presentation noting that the staff will present the status of the open and 
confirmatory items and summarize the scoping and screening methodology and the scoping and 
screening results. The staff will also present the aging management program inspections; 
concrete aging, as requested by the ACRS members. The staff will conclude its presentation by 
explaining the Interim Staff Guidance (ISG) process and will provide the status 
of the identified 
ISG issues. 
St. Lucie Nuclear Power Plant Units 1 and 2 are Combustion Engineering plants with large dry 
containments. Unit 1 is  seven years older than Unit 
2, which resulted in some design 
differences between the units. 
The St. Lucie process and programs which are associated with license renewal are similar to 
those used for Turkey Point. The differences between the designs 
of the Combustion 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 9 
April 9, 2003 
Engineering plant and the Westinghouse plant introduces some unique aging management and 
TLAA. 
When the staff received the St. Lucie license renewal application, they reviewed the application 
in detail and developed the draft request for additional information (RAJ) concerning verification 
and clarification 
of information in the application. After meeting and discussing the draft RAl's 
with the application, the staff issued the RAls that were required for completing the review. The 
applicant than submitted responses to these RAls. 
In some cases, additional meetings were held to discuss the draft responses. As a result 
of 
these meetings, the applicant revised the draft RAI responses before they were submitted to the 
NRC. On the basis 
of the information in the license renewal application and in  the RAt 
responses, the staff prepared the SER with open items. Since issuing the SER with open items, 
the staff has continued its discussion with the application to resolve the open items. Once all the 
open items and confirmatory items are resolved, the staff will issue a final SER, which will 
provide the basis 
for issuing the license renewal. 
The staff and the applicant have expended significant time and effort 
in this review process. The 
applicant used the lessons learned from its Turkey Point LRA when they prepared the St. Lucie 
application. About 70 fewer RAl's were issued during the St. Lucie license renewal application 
review as were issued for the Turkey Point review. 
As a result 
of the NRC staff review, new components or commodity groups were identified and 
subject to an aging management review. 
Of these, about 75 components required aging 
management programs. 
In response to one RAI, the applicant created a new aging 
management program. 
The NRC staff conducted one audit and two inspections to verify information contained in  the 
application were 
in responses to the RAls. 
There were 
11 open items identified in the SER with open items. Since the SER was issued the 
staff has reached resolution on all 
of these items. 
In one open item the staff questioned the management of wall thinning due to internal corrosion 
of small-bore piping in  the fire-protection system. For previous applications, the staff accepted 
aging management programs that included volumetric inspection 
of these lines. The fire 
protection system is  supplied by city water, and the applicant's monitors internal piping 
conditions via pressure tests, leakage tests, and identification 
of excessive corrosion products 
during flushing 
of the systems. Past operating experience has not identified any degraded 
conditions 
of the internal surfaces, and during recent modifications of the system, the applicant 
obtained ultrasonic pipe wall-thickness measurements on stagnant portions 
of the system. The 
measured wall thicknesses were apprOXimately nominal. Based upon a nominal wall thickness 
in the measured wall thicknesses, the applicant determined a worst-case corrosion rate might 
have occurred over the last 24 years 
of operation. The applicant then used the worst-case 
corrosion rate and calculated the pipe wall thickness at the end 
of the period of extended 
operations and found the wall thickness would be greater than the ASME B31.1 Code 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 10 
April 9, 2003 
requirements for a minimum wall thickness. Therefore, based on the volumetric measurements 
and the corrosion rate calculations, this item was resolved. 
Dr. Bonaca questioned whether the program will rely on the identification of leakage. Mr. Dudley 
responded not 
in this case. Mr. Hale added that with regard to ultrasonic as related to wet pipe 
systems that are pressurized all the time, like fixed sprinkler systems and that sort 
of thing, if any 
leakage is  detected that would be an indication that was a problem, that would be corrected 
under the fire protection program. There 
is still quite a bit that needs to be done under the fire 
protection program, 
in terms of monitoring fixed systems, testing pumps, ensuring that flows 
rates produce the right pressure at the far end of the system. Mr. Rajan, NRC staff pointed out, 
that the staff based their acceptance primarily on the flushing pressure testing and performance 
testing, but this was one 
of the areas where the flow testing was not being conducted, so the 
staff questioned the licensee how it verified the acceptability 
of the wall thickness in those areas. 
The applicant performed a one-time inspection and based a an estimated corrosion rate based 
on the performance 
of that line and projected it out, it was determined that there was sufficient 
margin. The staff accepted that conclusion. 
Mr. Dudley continued noting that the staff questioned FP&L's management 
of wall thinning in 
small-bore pipes in the intake cooling water system. The environment of the small-bore pipes is 
stagnant sea water. The staff also questioned the possibility 
of common mode failure of the 
small-bore pipe during a seismic event. 
In its response to the RAI, and in discussions with the 
staff, the applicant indicated the following: that there are crawl-through inspections 
of the 
majority of the intake cooling water (ICW) systems line pipes, which include, approximately 80 
percent of the pipes 
in the system. The inspection also included as much of each branch line as 
possible. The branch lines consist of welded flanges to which small-bore piping is  attached. 
The flanges are the most susceptible location for the development of corrosion cells since there 
is a break in the epoxy lining where the flange and pipe come together. 
The applicant has established a program to replace small bore epoxy-lined carbon steel pipes 
with a more corrosive-resistant material. To date, the applicant has replaced approximately 
75% 
of the carbon steel pipes with the more resistant material. 
As part 
of the normal shift activities, operators walk down the ICW system, note any leaks, and 
initiate corrective action. The ICW system 
is an open system and is designed to perform its 
intended function with a sheered three-quarter inch instrument line and an additional hundred­
gallon-per-minute leak. The maintenance history indicates that the localized failure 
of cement 
linings and internal epoxy coating of intake cooling water lines result 
in small corrosion cells that 
lead to two-wall leakage. The system and structures monitoring program and the ICW 
inspection programs are adequate to manage internal corrosion 
in the ICW piping. The staff 
considers this item resolved. 
Dr. Bonaca again questioned 25 percent of the piping that has not been replaced. Mr. Hale 
replied that FP&L credited two aging management programs for aging of the small-bore lines. 
One 
is internal visual crawl-through inspections of the larger ICW piping; and the other is 
leakage inspection. The basis behind that is  part 
of the corrective action for the other lines be 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 11 
April 9, 2003 
established an acceptance criteria that says we can allow a certain amount of leakage, so if a 
leak is  detected, it will be repaired. 
Dr. Bonaca questioned why the remaining 25 percent 
of the piping was not replaced. Mr. Hale 
responded that part 
of it that this system is  operating all the time, even during an outage. It is 
difficult to replace the piping unless the system 
is out of service. Therefore, based on operating 
experience leakage has been small, where the system safety function 
is not affected, FP&L will 
essentially go into a corrective maintenance mode for these small-bore lines. 
Mr. Dudley continued the discussion stating that, as a result 
of industry experience with the 
unexpected aging degradation 
of Alloy 600 materials and Alloy 182 materials, the staff is 
developing guidance and requirements for managing these aging effects. To ensure applicants 
comply with future staff guidance, the staff requested a commitment from the applicants. The 
applicant committed to implement the commitments made 
in response to NRC bulletins and any 
further NRC communications associated with primary water stress, corrosion, cracking, and 
nickel-based alloy components. Therefore, the staff considers this item 
is resolved. 
Dr. Ford noted that there are numerous degradation modes for Alloy 600, 690, and 182, and 
questioned whether the staff took into account whether some 
of these components had already 
been repaired as a possible indicator 
of future failures. The staff responded yes, the staff had 
the same concerns. NRC Bulletins 02-01, 02-02, and 01-01 are specific to primary water stress, 
corrosion, cracking that occurs 
in the upper vessel head. The bulletins do not address industry 
experience 
in other Class I Inconellocations. Therefore, the staff divided the open item in two; 
one open item on the vessel heads and one open item on the remaining components. Basically, 
the second open item requested clarification on which additional Inconel components are 
covered by the scope of your program and how will they be inspected. FP&L provided the 
locations and clarified that it was only using the current ASME Code Section 
XI programs. 
Depending on whether it is  a nozzle joined by a partial penetration weld 
or an Alloy 182 safe end 
nozzle weld, which is  a full-penetration weld, the ASME Code Section 
XI requirements are 
slightly different and may require a surface inspection, volumetric inspection, or a combination 
of 
the two. For the partial penetration welds, only leakage tests and VT-2 visual examinations are 
required. 
Mr. Dudley continued with the presentation noting that the applicant plans to use risk informed 
methodologies for the one-time small-bore Class I piping inspection. The applicant confirmed 
that the risk informed methodologies will not 
be used to eliminate volumetric inspection of weld. 
The applicant committed to provide the NRC an inspection plan, prior to the period 
of extended 
operations, that describes the risk inform methodology and addresses how the methodology will 
be used to determine the location and the number 
of small-bore piping components for 
inspection. This commitment will be included 
as part of the UFSAR supplement. 
Dr. Bonaca questioned whether the inspections would be one-time inspections. Mr. Dudley 
replied, yes. The details 
of the program will be provided prior to the period of extended 
operation. The applicant has committed to include specific information 
in that program 
description for staff approval. FP&L clarified that the Class I small-bore inspection program 
of 
ASME Code Section XI currently only requires visual inspection of small-bore piping. The 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 12 
April 9, 2003 
concern raised by the staff is  that there needs to be some volumetric inspection of the small­
bore piping, 
in addition to ASME Code Section XI. Based on FP&L's aging assessment it did 
not anticipate finding any degradation in this piping. So FP&L committed, as other applicants 
have, to performing a one-time volumetric inspection, 
in addition to the ongoing visual 
inspections performed under ASME Code Section XI. Risk is  used to establish the locations of 
the ultrasonic (volumetric) inspections in the small-bore piping. Dr. Bonaca asked what the 
applicant will do if the inspections identify sections 
of degraded piping that are not in a risk 
significant location, but are 
in a susceptible location. Mr. Hale responded that FP&L would take 
specific corrective action, which may include replacing the piping or additional inspections 
including vOlumetric inspections. 
Mr. Dudley noted that, next, the staff questioned the applicant's basis for not managing stress 
relaxation for non-Class I bolting material. Non-Class I bolting does experience stress relaxation 
at temperatures above 700 degrees Fahrenheit. The non-Class I bolts at St. Lucie are 
environments that have temperatures below the 700 degrees Fahrenheit (by approximately 200­
300 degrees Fahrenheit), and, therefore, do not require an aging management program specific 
to stress relaxation. Mr. Medoff added that when the staff performed its review it noticed the 
applicant has one global aging effect, which is  loss of closure integrity, and the applicant 
evaluated it for different degradation mechanisms, such as severe corrosion 
or cracking or 
stress relaxation. During the review, the staff noticed that the applicant's identification of this 
aging effect for the non-Class I was handled slightly differently. The applicant did not identify 
stress relaxation as a mechanism leading to the loss of closure integrity. In response to an open 
item on this matter, the applicant provided the threshold for stress relaxation for the different 
materials for the Class I 
in contrast to the materials used for the non-Class I reactor coolant 
system (RCS) bolting. To confirm the validity 
of the responses, the staff reviewed the 
appropriate ASME Code section and confirmed the ASME Code thresholds for stress relaxation 
in the different materials. Therefore, based on the use of 700 degrees Fahrenheit as the 
threshold for stress relaxation and Grade B-7 bolting, which is  being used for the non-Class I 
RCS bolting, the staff confirmed that stress relaxation would not be an applicable effect for those 
bolting materials because the operation of the RCS would 
be at a temperature lower than that. 
Probably around 560-600 degrees Fahrenheit, so maybe 100-140 degrees Fahrenheit and the 
bolts are actually cooler than that. 
Mr. Dudley noted that the staff questioned the applicant's basis for not managing possible crack 
propagation from Alloy 182 welds 
in the base metal of the pressurizer nozzles and thermal 
sleeves. The thermal sleeves are not welded and do not perform a pressure boundary function. 
The thermal sleeves are machined, inserted, and expanded. Therefore, since there are no 
welds, there is  no possibility of crack propagation to the base material that forms the pressure 
boundary, and this item is  resolved. 
In ISG-5, "Identification and Treatment of Electrical Fuse Holders for License Renewal," the 
staff stated that the fuse holders are considered passive electrical components and should 
be 
brought into scope of license renewal and subject to an aging management review. The 
applicant identified electrical boxes that contain fuses that were brought within scope. The fuse 
holders are located 
in electrical boxes in the electrical equipment rooms in the Unit 1 and Unit 2 
reactor auxiliary buildings. The applicant conducted 
an aging management review of the effects 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 13 
April 9, 2003 
of aging stressers, such as vibration, thermal cycling, electrical transients, mechanical stress, 
fatigue, corrosion, chemical contamination, and oxidation 
of connecting surfaces. The applicant 
concluded that no aging management programs are required. The staff performed an extensive 
review 
of this since this is  the first LRA that addresses ISG-5; some of the things that the staff 
took into consideration when they reached the acceptance 
of the applicant's position was that 
the fuse holders are installed 
in parallel with breakers to address regulatory guide associated 
with providing double isolation for non-safety-related loads powered from safety-related power 
supplies. The non-safety related  loads include instrumentation and heater strips to electrical 
panels. The fuse holder clips are made 
of copper or a copper alloy plated with a corrosion­
resistant material, either tin 
or silver, and the fuse holders are in a mild, non-air-conditioned 
environment, and the staff was unable to identify any aging effects that would degrade the 
performance 
of the fuse holder. On this basis, the staff considers this item resolved. 
The last open item, involves instances 
in which the St. Lucie Units 1 and 2 have experienced 
Alloy 500 instrument nozzle leakage. Four Unit 2 pressurizers steam space instrument nozzles 
and one Unit 1 reactor coolant system hot leg instrument nozzle were repaired with a half-nozzle 
repair technology. A  mechanical analysis was submitted to support the St. Lucie Unit 2 
pressurizer steam space half-nozzle repair performed 
in 1994. The staff is  currently reviewing 
several aspects 
of the half-nozzle repair and associated topical reports. The staff is evaluating 
the acceptability 
of leaving the half-nozzle repairs in place due to the unknown effects of primary 
coolant contacting the ferritic material 
of the nozzles (this is  a follow-up action to concerns 
identified at Davis Besse). The staff is  reviewing a regulatory relief request from FP&L for 
leaving the half-nozzle repair 
in place for one cycle while Combustion Engineering assesses 
calculational errors 
in its topical report associated with the fracture mechanical analysis 
supporting half-nozzle repairs. The topical report 
is currently being reviewed by the staff. 
The applicant also submitted a site-specific calculation for evaluating the crack growth 
associated with small-diameter nozzles for St. Lucie Units 1 and 
2, and that's also under review 
by the staff. 
Since the technical issues associated with the half-nozzle repairs have not been resolved for the 
current period of operations, the applicant cannot demonstrate that the fatigue analysis can be 
re-evaluated for the period 
of extended operations. The staff has not yet determined what is 
appropriate for a 40-year time period. Therefore, the staff cannot extend that calculation to the 
50-year time period at this time. However, the applicant committed to implement any further 
NRC requirements associated with half-nozzle repairs and, on the basis 
of this commitment, this 
issue is  resolved for license renewal. Again, the staff will rely on the 10 CFR Part 50 operating 
license for resolution 
of the adequacy of the half-nozzle repairs. 
Mr. Dudley reviewed the findings of the reactor oversight process for St. Lucie. The 
performance indicators for St. Lucie were last updated 
in December 2002. All the indicators are 
green. St. Lucie has had two trips 
in past year. In October of 2000, there was a manual re-trip. 
Based on the loss 
of condenser vacuum. Operators were re-aligning the condenser vacuum 
system and, due to the misalignment, they lost pressure. 
In April 2003, there was a reactor trip 
during start-up when an auxiliary feed pump was started and tripped (most likely due to low 
steam generator water level). Neither 
of these events were recognized as a regulatory problem, 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 14 
April 9, 2003 
and there was no non-cited violations issued in  response to the trips in  either case. There were 
several events 
of not following your radiological control programs. There was one instance of 
radioactive material (a hot particle) being carried off-site. 
SCOPING AND SCREENING METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS Mr. Greg Galletti and Mr. Noel 
Dudley 
Mr. Galletti, an operations engineer in  the Equipment and Human Performance Branch, NRR, 
briefly explained the staff's audit 
of the scoping and screening methodology and the audit 
performed as part 
of that review process. 
The team consists 
of three members to perform the audit. In preparation for the audit, the team 
conducts a procedures documentation review trip to the applicant's facility to gather information 
pertaining to the LRA. At that time the team assembles design basis documentation (OBO), 
scoping and screening result reports, and any other design basis information that may help the 
team review the LRA and review the process that the applicant used to determine what systems 
are in  scope and, ultimately, what structures and components are then subject to aging 
management review. 
The team spends several weeks performing a conservative desktop review. The team reviews 
how the application is  structured in reference to the requirements 
of the 10 CFR Part 54 to 
ensure SSC's have been appropriately identified. 
Once the desktop review is  complete, the team returns to the applicant's facility for a full week to 
review in  detail the implemented guidelines. In this case, the applicant assembled a suite 
of 
procedures called engineering instructions that were written and implemented in  accordance 
with the FP&L 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix 
B, quality assurance program. 
As part 
of the review, the team reviewed each of those procedures in  detail with the cognizant 
FP&L engineers for that particular discipline. The team then selected certain systems to review. 
The team normally reviews four mechanical systems initially: component cooling water; safety 
injection; auxiliary feed water; and main feed water and then main steam and condensate. 
There are several reasons the team selects these systems. First, there is  a combination 
of both 
safety and non-safety related systems. Second, they are robust and complicated systems. 
Third, there is  a lot 
of interface between some of these systems. 
The team found that the applicant's implementation guidance was very well constructed, 
detailed, robust, and provided guidance necessary for its staff to implement their process. 
Mr. Rosen questioned whether it was unusual for applicants to perform these reviews under 
procedures that are controlled by 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix 
B. Mr. Galletti responded no, 
however, some previous applicants have chosen not to perform it under their Appendix B 
program. Mr. Rosen and Mr. Leitch added that it was not clear how an applicant could choose 
not to follow its Appendix B program and that this was a concern they would like to pursue with 
the staff. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 15 
April 9, 2003 
The team identified one major issue regarded the 10 CFR 50.54(a)(2) seismic 11/1 issue. Initially, 
the applicant had performed an internal evaluation 
of what it  characterized as A2 issues (the 
effect 
of non-safety SSCs on safety-related SSCs). After lengthy discussions with the applicant, 
additional systems were brought into scope. 
In summary, the team determined that that there was reasonable assurance that the applicant's 
methodology for scoping and screening was appropriate. 
Mr. Dudley next provided a brief overview of the scoping and screening results and the aging 
management review process. The purpose 
of the staffs review of the results of the applicant's 
scoping and screening methodology is to verify that the applicant has properly implemented its 
methodology. The staff focuses its review on the methodology results. To confirm that there is 
no omission of the plant-level systems and structures within the scope 
of license renewal and 
that there is 
no omission of mechanical systems and components, structures, or electrical and 
I&C components, they are subject to 
an aging management review. 
To conduct its review, the staff used guidance from the license renewal standard review plan 
and ISGs. The staff reviewed system drawings indicating license renewal boundaries, previous 
license renewal application reviews, and information 
in the updated safety evaluation reports to 
verify there were no omissions 
in the applicant's results. The staff's review confirmed that the 
applicant's responses to ISGs concerning station blackout, seismic 
11/1 issue, and ventilation fan 
damper housings did not omit any structures 
or components that should be taken into 
consideration for license renewal. The staff concluded that there is  reasonable assurance that 
the applicant has appropriately identified components subject to an AMR 
in accordance with the 
requirements stated in 10 CFR 54.21 (a)(1). 
The purpose 
of the staffs review of the applicant's aging management review results is  to verify 
the applicant has identified the appropriate aging management program for the various 
combinations 
of materials, environments, and aging effects associated with the structures and 
components that are within the scope of license renewal. 
In this case, the staff used eXisting regulatory requirements or gUidance to reach a conclusion 
on the appropriateness of the aging management program identified by the applicant. Since the 
applicant did not claim credit for its aging management reviews being consistent with the GALL 
report, the staff did not reference the GALL reports 
in its evaluation of the aging management 
review results. However, 
in some cases, the staff used the technical information in the GALL 
report to provide justification for the acceptability of the applicant's results. 
The staff reviewed the aging management program results 
in Chapter 3 of the LRA The staff 
concluded that the applicant has demonstrated the aging effects associated with different 
structures and components will be adequately managed. There is  reasonable assurance that 
the intended function will be 
man~ged consistent with the current licensing basis for the period 
of extended operations, as required by 10 CFR 54.21 (a)(3). 
AGING MANAGEMENT PROGRAM INSPECTIONS AND CONCRETE AGING ISSUES Mr. 
Noel Dudley, Mr. Caudle Julian, and Mr. David Jeng 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 16 
April 9, 2003 
Mr. Julian next provided an overview of the license renewal inspection program. For each 
inspection, the staff assembles a site-specific inspection plan that's reviewed and approved 
jointly by the region and by NRR. 
In the case of St. Lucie the staff determined that a follow-up 
inspection 
is not warranted. 
The objective 
of the scoping and screening inspection is to confirm the applicant included the 
appropriate systems, structures, and components 
in the scope of license renewal. The 
inspection focused on reviewing the system boundaries. The staff concluded that the 
applicant's scoping and screening process was successful 
in identifying those system structures 
and components needing to be given an aging management review and its documentation was 
a very good quality. The applicant did not use the method used by Peach Bottom 
in which 
components were brought into scope by realigning the systems at the boundaries. 
The next inspection is the aging management program inspection 
in which the objective is to 
con'firm that the existing aging management programs are working well and to examine the 
applicant's plans for establishing new aging management programs and enhancing existing 
aging management programs. 
In this inspection, the staff assessed existing aging management 
programs. 
The inspectors walk down systems with the system engineers to assess how the systems are 
being maintained today to give the NRC confidence that the utility will do good 
in the future. 
There were no major problems identified during the aging management program inspection. 
The inspectors did identify that the electrical cable manholes periodic inspection program 
needed enhancements. The applicant agreed to that and has since enhanced that program. 
Mr. Rosen expressed concern that all nuclear plants have manholes 
in the yards that can collect 
water, yet this issues comes up consistently 
in LRA reviews. This is a real problem. Ms. 
Franovich responded that the GALL report contains 
an A&P that addresses cables exposed to 
moisture and significant moisture that is  1O-year test and acknowledged that an ISG should be 
written on this matter. 
Mr. Jeng, briefly discussed the 
staffs review of below-grade concrete aging management. The 
staff position for below grade concrete 
is that if it  is  not exposed to the environment then there 
will be no need for inspection 
of those concrete elements. However, if the environment is 
established to be an aggressive one, then the staff requires an applicant to propose an 
appropriate aging management program. 
The criteria to determine whether an environment is  aggressive consists 
of three points in the 
GALL and is not quite quantitative. The first point is  that the 
pH of the environment should not 
be less than 5.5; the second point is  that the chloride content 
of the ground water in the soil 
environment should not be larger than 500 PPM; and the third point are the solvent content 
requirements, which the staff maintains they should not exceed 1500 PPM. 
In the case of the St. Lucie, the site is  quite unique in having an aggressive environment. 
Specifically, the content of the chloride 
in the St. Lucie site ground water is in the order of 10,000 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 17 
April 9, 2003 
to 25,000 PPM (salt water is approximately 22,000 PPM) compared to the acceptable limit of 
500 PPM. 
In terms of the sulfate content of the St. Lucie ground water, it's in the order of 1,000 to 4,000 
PPM, which exceeds the staff's limit 
of 1500 PPM. Therefore, the applicant took the initiative to 
treat the environment as a very aggressive one with regard to its aging management program. 
The staff finds this acceptable. 
With regard to the applicant's management 
of rebar corrosion in concrete corrosion and how it 
has evaluated the affects of phosphate on the aging of concrete, the staff finds the applicant's 
conclusions (as stated previously 
in this Subcommittee Meeting) very reasonable and adequate 
Dr. Ford expressed concern with the methods used by the applicant to monitor for sea water 
attack on concrete and rebar. Mr. Rosen added that, periodically looking for interior leakage is  a 
good thing, but it  is  after the fact. Looking at exterior structures whenever they are excavated is 
good thing but it is  random. Given the importance of the integrity 
of structures exposed to 
aggressive ground water environments more should be done to verify the integrity 
of the 
concrete and rebar. Dr. Kuo agreed and noted that this his is  a generic problem and not St. 
Lucie specific. 
TIME-LIMITED AGING ANALYSES Mr. Noel Dudley 
Mr. Dudley noted that TLAA's have evolved since issuance of the original plant operating 
license. For example, analyses supporting core barrel repair 
or the reactor coolant system half­
nozzle repairs. The staff's review 
of TLAA's confirms that the applicant has evaluated the 
TLAA's by verifying either the analysis is  valid for a period of extended operation, 
or the analysis 
is  projected to the end of the period 
of extended operations and the results continue to meet the 
design requirements, or there's a program to manage the aging effects. 
Reactor neutron ernbrittlement consists 
of three separate analyses: the end of life Upper Shelf 
Energy; the pressurized thermal shock reference temperature; and the pressure and 
temperature limits as a discussion item since it's not truly a TLAA. 
The analysis 
of the upper shelf energies for the different reactor vessel belt line materials was 
projected to the end 
of a period of extended operations. The results of the applicant's calculated 
upper shelf energies for Unit 1 reactor vessel ranged from 56 to 73 foot pounds, which are 
above the acceptance criterion 
of 50-foot pounds. The results for Unit 2 range from 70 to 130­
foot pounds, which again is  above the criterion. The staff performed independent calculations to 
confirm these results 
in accordance with the guidance in Regulatory Guide (RG) 1.99, 
"Radiation Embrittlement of Reactor Vessel Materials". Mr. Medoff added that to perform the 
independent calculations, the staff has a reactor vessel integrity database that includes all the 
belt line materials for all the U.S. plants, including St. Lucie 1 and 
2. For the neutron 
embrittlement assessments for pressurized thermal shock and Upper Shelf, the staff performed 
independent calculations of all the materials, and the methods 
in the database follow the 
guidelines 
of regulatory guide 1.99, Revision 2, which has been in use for a long time. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 18 
April 9. 2003 
Mr. Leitch questioned whether the applicant had committed to implement forthcoming guidance 
provided by NRC regarding the resolution of Generic Safety Issue (GSI) 168. 
Dr. Kuo 
responded that the applicant has committed to some of the programs 
in GALL Chapter 10, 
either 
E1 or E2 or E3, depending on the cables, but that the resolution of GSI 168 is  a current 
operation issue. Mr. Hale added that FP&L performed an assessment with regard to adverse 
localized environments that is  documented 
in summary in the LRA. 
Dr. Kuo added that it would have to get back to the Committee regarding the process by which 
licensees implement the requirements 
of GSls once they have been resolved. This includes 
that, if new requirements are established, how does the licensee implement them 
in the 
extended license. 
That completed the 
staffs presentation regarding its SER. 
INTERIM STAFF GUIDANCE Mr. Jack Cushing 
Jack Cushing a project manager 
in the License Renewal Branch, NRR, stated that his 
presentation would focus on the ISG process and how the staff develops ISGs, not on the 
technical aspects of any specific ISG. 
Interim Staff Guidance is  new 
or expanded guidance that the staff requires to communicate in a 
timely manner to current and future applicants, as well as other stakeholders. ISGs provide 
guidance that will be incorporated into the license renewal guidance documents to state an 
approved method, but not the only method, of meeting the regulations. An applicant does not 
have to follow the guidance, but they do have to demonstrate to the staff that their alternative 
method complies with the regulations. 
The license renewal process is  a learning process. The staff and the industry learn from each 
review. The staff captures lessons learned from the reviews and communicates them to the 
stakeholders through an ISG. The ISG also provides the stakeholders a means to raise issues 
related to the license renewal guidance documents 
The ISG process includes identification, development, and implementation. Implementation of 
the ISG includes current and future applicant and addresses evaluating licensees that hold 
renewed licenses. Compliant ISGs involve compliance with the regulation, the staff will track the 
licensees to which it  applies and ensure that they're evaluated 
in accordance with existing staff 
guidance prior to entering the period of extended operation. Clarification ISG's do not involve 
compliance with the regulation, therefore, do not involve back-fit consideration. 
A proposed ISG is issued for stakeholder comments. If the stakeholders agree, then the ISG 
will be published on the NRC web sites, and applicants may reference it in their license renewal 
applications. 
If the stakeholders do not agree, then they may provide written comments, and the 
staff will hold a public meeting to address these comments. At that point, the staff would resolve 
the ISG and publish it on the NRC web site. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 19 
April 9, 2003 
Implementation for applicants, current and future applicants must address all approved ISG's 
before a renewed license is  issued. Applicants may wish to address 
an ISG before it is 
approved so it does not have to be addressed in as a back-fit. 
Currently, there are 14 ISG's (see attachment). The first five have been completed, and are 
on 
the NRC's web site, and current applicants are addressing them. Two are no longer ISG's 
because they do not involve technical information. These are ISG-8 and ISG-10. ISG-8 is the 
ISG process, which we are discussing today; and ISG-10 is the standard license renewal format, 
which provides guidance to the applicants for the license renewal applications based on lessons 
learned from reviews 
of applications using the new GALL format. 
That completed the staff's formal presentations 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEMBER SlIMMARYS AND CONCLUSIONS 
Mr. Rosen: 
•  Expressed concern that 10 CFR Part 54 does not require LRA to be prepared in 
accordance with a  10 CFR Part 50, Appendix 
B, Quality Assurance Program 
•  Believes that an AMP should be established for the periodic inspection 
of cables 
contained in  manholes. 
•  Not convinced that monitoring for interior leakage,  and performing opportunistic 
inspections when areas are excavated for other work, are sufficient to monitor for the 
affects on concrete structures 
of aggressive ground water. 
Mr. Leitch: 
•  Would like to hear more about TLAAs for reactor vessel core barrels at the September 
ACRS Full Committee Meeting. 
•  Would like to hear the applicant's follow-on process to track and implement license 
renewal commitments (similar to what the Peach Bottom applicant presented during the 
March 2003 ACRS Full Committee Meeting). The applicants commitments for the 
resolution 
of GSI-168, should be discussed during time. 
Dr. Ford: 
•  No comments specific to the St. Lucie LRA. 
•  The GALL needs to be updated to include the synergistic effects 
of AMPs 
•  Inspection intervals need to be quantified. Currently, licensees are relying on 
engineering judgement. A decision process needs to be established. 
•  At the full Committee Meeting the applicant should discuss in more detail its program for 
concrete inspections. 
Mr. Bonaca: 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 20 
April 9, 2003 
•  At the full Committee Meeting the applicant should discuss in more detail the 
independent assessment it had performed 
on the affects of phosphates on concrete 
performance. 
•  At the full Committee Meeting the applicant should not spend much time 
on process and 
scoping. The applicant's presentation should focus on future activities associated with 
license renewal. 
•  At the full Committee Meeting the staff should discuss the ISG process and status. 
STAFF AND INDUSTRY COMMITMENTS 
1.  The staff committed to meet with the staff regarding the quality assurance used to 
develop 
of LRAs. 
2.  The staff should be prepared to discuss the periodic inspection of electrical cables in 
manholes. 
3.  The staff committed to brief the Committee regarding the process by which licensees 
implement the requirements 
of GSls once they have been resolved. 
4.  At the September 2003 full Committee Meeting the applicant and staff will discus the 
following: 
•  the TLAAs for reactor vessel core barrels 
in more detail, 
•  the follow-on process for tracking, implementing, and tracking commitments, 
including a follow-up of the applicant's commitments to GSI-168. 
•  concrete inspection programs 
in more detail including the independent 
assessment the applicant had performed on the affects of phosphates 
on 
concrete performance, 
•  the inspection 
of buried concrete structures. 
•  the applicant should not spend much time on process and scoping. The 
applicant's presentation should focus on future activities associated with license 
renewal. 
•  the staff should discuss the ISG process and status. 
•  any relevant significant operational events 
SUBCOMMITTEE DECISION 
The Subcommittee decided not to prepare an interim letter regarding this LRA. The 
Subcommittee Chairman briefed the full Committee on the 
St. Lucie LRA at the April 2003 
ACRS Meeting. The Subcommittee requested that the staff present 
an abbreviated-version of its 
presentation regarding the SER, and the applicant discuss its programs to track and implement 
commitments made for license renewal, to the ACRS one month after it  submits the final SER to 
the Committee for review. 

Minutes: Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 21 
April 9, 2003 
PRESENTATION SLIDES AND HANDOUTS PROVIDED DURING THE MEETING 
The presentation slides and handouts used during the meeting are available in the ACRS office 
files and as attachments to the transcript which will be made available 
in ADAMS. 
BACKGROUND MATERIAL PROVIDED TO THE SUBCOMMITTEE 
1.  "Safety Evaluation Report with Open Items Related to the License Renewal of St. Lucie 
Units 1 and 2," February 2003 (CD-ROM also included). 
2.  St. Lucie Units 1 and 2 License Renewal Application, November 30, 2001 (CD-ROM also 
included). 
3.  License Renewal Interim Staff Guidance 
Nos. 1 through 4 (issued) 
Nos. 5 through 14 (under staff development) 
4.  Memorandum to Timothy Kobetz from Noel Dudley, Dated December 16,2003, 
regarding FP&L Responses to Staff Requests for Additional Information. 
5.  Florida Power and Light response to NRC BL 2002-01 ,Reactor Pressure Vessel Head 
Degradation and Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary Integrity, " dated April 
2, 2002. 
6.  Florida Power and Light response to NRC BL 2002-02, Circumferential Cracking of 
Reactor Pressure vessel head penetration Nozzles, dated January 31, 2003. 
********************************************** 
NOTE: Additional details of this meeting can be obtained from a transcript of this meeting 
available 
in the NRC Public Document Room, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, 
Rockville, MD, (301) 415-7000, downloading or view 
on the Internet at 
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/acrs/ can 
be purchased from Neal R. Gross and 
Co., 1323 Rhode Island Avenue, 
NW, Washington, D.C. 20005, (202) 234-4433 (voice), (202) 
387-7330 (fax), nrgross@nealgross.com (e-mail). 
*********************************************** 

Attachment
 
Interim Staff Guidance (ISG)
 
Status List
 
for License Renewal
 
Status as 
of February 2003
 
No ISG 
Issue 
(Approved ISG No.) 
Purpose 
Actions Status 
(Issue date) 
1 GALL report contains 
one acceptable way, 
not only way 
(ISG-01) 
To clarify GALL 
report contains 
one acceptable 
way, not only 
way 
Staff issued 
11/23/01 Letter 
NEI responded 
01/03/02 
Changes 
to 
Completed 
M
LO 13300531 
(11/23/01 ) 
GALL: No 
SRP: Yes 
2 
Station Blackout 
(SBO) Scoping 
(ISG-02) 
To add SBO 
scoping 
Staff issued 
11/14/01 
UCS response 
2/19/02 
NEI responded 
3/19/02 
Final position 
issued 4/01/02 
Changes 
to 
Completed 
ML020920464 
(04/01/02) 
GALL: No 
SRP: Yes 
3 
Concrete Aging 
Management Program 
(ISG-03) 
To clarify the 
applicable aging 
management 
programs 
(AMPs) 
in GALL 
and SRP 
Staff issued 
11/23/01 
NEI responded 
3/14/02 
Staff responded 
4/5/02 
NEI responded 
4/29/02 
Changes 
to 
Completed 
M
LO 13300426 
(11/23/01) 
GALL: Yes 
SRP: Yes 
Page 1 of 3 

I 
r
 
Page2 of 3 
4 Fire Protection System 
Piping (ISG-4) 
To clarify AMPs 
M26 and M27 
Staff issued 
1/28/02 
Final position 
issued 
12/03/02 
Changes to 
Completed 
ML022260137 
(12/03/02) 
GALL: Yes 
SRP: 
Yes 
5 
Identification and 
Treatment 
of Electrical 
Fuse Holder 
To include fuse 
clips and fuse 
block for fuse 
holders and to 
add a new AMP 
for fuse clips 
(Le., metallic) 
Staff issued 
5/16/02 
UCS concurred 
5/23/02 
NEI responded 
06/19/02 
Staff is  revising 
its position 
Changes to 
Under Staff 
Development 
GALL: Yes 
SRP: Yes 
6 
Identification and 
Treatment of Housing 
for Active Components 
To clarify a need 
for aging 
management 
review (AMR) for 
housing for fans, 
Staff issued 
5/01102 
Staff will re-issue 
its position 
Changes to 
Under Staff 
Development 
dampers, and GALL: Yes 
HIC coils SRP: 
Yes 
7 Scoping Guidance for 
Fire Protection (FP) 
Systems, Structures, 
and Components 
To clarify the 
FP 
scoping 
Staff issued 
11/13/02 
Awaiting NEI 
response 
8 
Updating the Improved 
Guidance Documents 
ISG Process 
To establish ISG 
process. The 
appeal process 
will be a part of 
ISG process 
Staff issued 
12/21/01 
NEI response 
3/13102 
Staff issued 
07/30102 
(ML022120383) 
Under Staff 
Development 

9 
Scoping Criteria 
54.4(a)(2) 
To clarify the 
scoping Criteria 
54.4(a)(2) 
Staff issued 
12/03/02 on 
Seismic 
1111. 
Staff issued 
3/15/02 on 
scoping criteria 
54.4(a)(2). 
NEI submitted 
white paper via 
E-mail 11/18/02 
Under Staff 
Development 
10 "Class of 03" Standard 
License Renewal 
Application (SLRA) 
Format 
To standardize 
license renewal 
application 
format for 2003 
applicants 
NEI submitted 
January 24, 
2003 
Under Staff 
Development 
11 
Aging Management of 
Environmental Fatigue 
for Carbon/Low-Alloy 
steel 
To review this 
fatigue issue as 
ISG process, 
agreed by 
September 18, 
2002, meeting 
NEI submitted 
ISG input 
January 17, 
2003 for staff 
review 
Under Staff 
Development 
12 Operating Experience 
with Cracking 
of Class 
1 Small-Bore Piping 
Identified as ISG 
on May 29,2002, 
Public Meeting 
On hold 
13 
Management 
of loss of 
preload on reactor 
vessel internals bolting 
using the loose parts 
monitoring system 
Identified as ISG 
on May 29, 2002, 
Public Meeting 
On hold 
14 
Operating Experience 
with Cracking 
in 
Bolting 
Identified as ISG 
on May 29,2002, 
Public Meeting 
On hold 
Page3 
of 3 

13338 Federal Register/Vol. 68, No. 53/Wednesday, March 19, 2003/Notices 
NRC has determined not to prepare an 
environmental impact statement for the 
proposed action. 
For further details 
with respect to the 
proposed action, see 
the licensee's letter 
dated July 23, 2002, as 
supplemented by 
letters 
dated November 15, 2002, and 
January 24, 2003. Documents may be 
examined, 
and/or copied for a fee, at the 
NRC's Public Document Room 
(PDR), 
located at One White Flint North, Public 
File Area 
01 F21, 11555 Rockville Pike 
(first floor), Rockville, Maryland. 
Publicly available records will be 
accessible electronically from 
the 
Agencywide Documents Access and 
Management System (ADAMS) Public 
Electronic Reading Room 
on the Internet 
at 
the NRC Web site, http:// 
www.nrc.gov!reading-rm!adams.html. 
Persons 
who do not have access to 
ADAMS or who encounter problems in 
accessing the documents located in 
ADAMS, 
should contact the NRC PDR 
Reference staff by telephone at 1-800­
397-4209 or 301-415-4737, or bye-mail 
to pdr@nrc.gov. 
Dated at Rockville. Maryland. this 12th day
of March 2003, 
For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
L. Raghavan,
 
Chief, Section 
1, Project Directorate III,
 
Division ofLicensing Project Management,
 
Office 
ofNuclearReactorRegulation.
 
[FR Doc. 03-6544 Filed 3-18-03; 8:45 ami 
BILLING CODE 759~1-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
Advisory Committee on Reactor 
Safeguards, Subcommittee Meeting on 
Planning and Procedures; Notice 
of 
Meeting 
The ACRS Subcommittee on Planning 
and Procedures will hold a meeting on 
April 9, 2003, Room T-2B1, 11545 
Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. 
The entire meeting will be 
open to 
public attendance, 
with the exception of 
a portion 
that may be closed pursuant 
to 5 U.S.c. 552b(c)(2) and (6) to discuss 
organizational 
and personnel matters 
that relate solely to internal personnel 
rules 
and practices of ACRS, and 
information the release of which would 
constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy. 
The agenda for the subject meeting 
shall be as follows: 
Wednesday, 
April 9, 2003-3:30 p.m. 
until the conclusion 
ofbusiness 
The Subcommittee will discuss 
proposed 
ACRS activities and related 
matters. 
The Subcommittee will gather 
information, analyze relevant issues 
and 
facts, and formulate proposed positions 
and actions, as appropriate, for 
deliberation by the full Committee. 
Members 
of the public desiring to 
provide oral statements 
and/or written 
comments 
should notify the Designated 
Federal Official, Mr. 
Sam Duraiswamy 
(telephone: 301/415-7364) between 7:30 
a.m. 
and 4:15 p.m. (ET) five days prior 
to 
the meeting, if possible, so that 
appropriate arrangements 
can be made. 
Electronic recordings will be permitted 
only during those portions of 
the 
meeting that are open to the public. 
Further information regarding this 
meeting 
can be obtained by contacting 
the Designated Federal Official between 
7:30 a.m. 
and 4:15 p.m. (ET). Persons 
planning to attend this meeting are 
urged to contact the above 
named 
individual at least two working days 
prior 
to the meeting to be advised of any 
potential changes in 
the agenda. 
Dated: March 11. 2003. 
Sher Bahadur, 
Associate Director for Technical Support, 
A CRSIACNW. 
[FR Doc. 03-6547 Filed 3-18-03; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 759~1-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
Advisory Committee on Reactor 
Safeguards, Meeting 
of the 
Subcommittee on Plant License 
Renewal; Notice 
of Meeting 
The ACRS Subcommittee on Plant 
License Renewal will 
hold a meeting on 
April 9, 2003, Room T-2B3, 11545 
Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. 
The entire meeting will be open to 
public attendance. 
The agenda for the subject meeting 
shall be as follows: 
Wednesday, 
April 9, 2003-8:30 a.m. 
until the conclusion 
ofbusiness. 
The purpose of this meeting is to 
review 
the license renewal application 
for the St. Lucie nuclear 
plant and the 
NRC staff's initial Safety Evaluation 
Report. The Subcommittee will hear 
presentations by 
and hold discussions 
with representatives of the NRC staff, 
the Florida Power 
and Light Company, 
and other interested persons regarding 
this matter. 
The Subcommittee will 
gather information. analyze relevant 
issues 
and facts. and formulate 
proposed positions 
and actions, as 
appropriate, for deliberation by the full 
Committee. 
Members of the public desiring to 
provide oral statements 
and/or written 
comments 
should notify the Designated 
Federal Official, Mr. Timothy Kobetz 
(telephone 301/415-8716) five days 
prior to 
the meeting, if possible, so that 
appropriate arrangements 
can be made. 
Electronic recordings will be permitted. 
Further information regarding this 
meeting 
can be obtained by contacting 
the Designated Federal Official between 
7:30 a,m. 
and 4:15 p.m. (ET). Persons 
planning to attend this meeting are 
urged to contact 
the above named 
individual at least two working days 
prior to the meeting to be advised of any 
potential changes to the agenda. 
Dated: March 11, 2003. 
Sher Bahadur, 
Associate Director for Technical Support, 
A CRSIACNW. 
[FR Doc. 03-6548 Filed 3-18-03; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 7590~1-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
Draft Regulatory Guide; Issuance, 
Availability 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
(NRC) has issued for public comment a 
proposed revision 
of a guide in its 
Regulatory Guide Series, Regulatory 
Guides are developed to describe 
and 
make available to the public such 
information as methods acceptable to 
the NRC staff for implementing specific 
parts of the NRC's regulations, 
techniques 
used by the staff in 
evaluating specific problems or 
postulated accidents, 
and data needed 
by the staff in its review of applications 
for permits 
and licenses. 
The draft guide is temporarily 
identified by its task number, DG-1107, 
which should be mentioned in all 
correspondence concerning this draft 
guide. Draft Regulatory Guide DG-1107, 
"Water Sources for Long-Term 
Recirculation Cooling Following a Loss­
of-Coolant Accident" is being developed 
to describe methods acceptable to the 
NRC staff for implementing 
requirements 
with respect to the sumps 
and suppression pools performing the 
functions of water sources for 
emergency core cooling, containment 
heat removal, or containment 
atmosphere clean up. Section 1.1.4 of 
DG-1107 contains discussions of active 
debris mitigation systems 
in lieu of the 
passive 
sump screens that are in many 
of the nuclear plants. Specifically, 
comments on alternative solutions to 
debris strainers for ensuring long-term 
cooling are solicited. 
This draft 
guide has not received 
complete staff approval 
and does not 
represent 
an official NRC staff position. 
Comments may be accompanied by 
relevant information or supporting data. 
Written comments may be submitted by 
mail to 
the Rules and Directives Branch. 

ADVISORY COMMITrEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
 
ST. LUCIE UNITS, 1 
&2
 
APRIL 
9, 2003, ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND
 
Contact: Tim Kobetz (301-415-8716, 
tjk1 @nrc.gov ) 
~ROPOSEDSCHEDUL& 
I. Opening Remarks  
M. Bonaca, ACRS 8:30-8:35 a.m. 
II.  
Staff Introduction P. T. Kuo, NRR 
8:35-8:45 a.m. 
III.  
Florida Power and Light, Presentation 
S. Hale 
8:45-9:30 a.m. 
A.  Background 
B.  License Renewal Application Scoping and
 
Screening Process
 
C.  Aging Effects 
D.  
Aging Management Programs 
E.  
Time Limited Aging Analyses 
IV.  
Overview and Status of Open Items Related N. Dudley 
9:30-10:15 a.m. 
to License Renewal 
of St. Lucie Units 1 &2 J. Medoff 
SER (including ROP and recent events, 
if D. Nguyen 
applicable). 
J. Fair 
S.Sheng 
V. SER Chap. 2: Scoping and Screening 
G. Galletti 
10:30-11 :30 noon 
Methodology and Results, and aging 
N. Dudley 
management reviews 
VI. 
Aging Management Program Inspections 
and Concrete Aging Issues 
N. Dudley 
C. Julian 
D. Jeng 
12:30-1 :00 p.m. 
VII. SER Chap. 3: Aging Management Programs 
1:00-1 :30 p.m. 
VIII. SER Chap. 4: Time Limited Aging Analyses 
A. Overview 
B. Reactor Vessel Neutron Embrittlement 
C. Thermal Fatigue 
D. Leak-before-break 
N. Dudley 
1:45-2:15 p.m. 
IX. 
Interim Staff Guidance: Process and Status J. Cushing 
2:15-3:00 p.m. 
X. Subcommittee Discussion 
3:00-3:15 p.m. 
XI. 
Adjourn 3:15 p.m. 
NOTE: 
•  Presentation time should not exceed 50 percent 
of the total time allocated for specific item. The 
remaining 50 percent 
of the time is  reserved for discussion. 
•  25 copies 
of the presentation materials to be provided to the Subcommittee 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
APRIL 9, 2003
 
ATTENDEES PLEASE SIGN IN BELOW
 
PLEASE PRINT
 
NAME 
AFFILIATION 
l'rlJce-· ee~ \e r 
FPL 
AN/cIIII () (;.. MENQ (J1Jl. 
(A-v j)L (;; dvL /4/J 
$ru~ ~6 
,.-PL.. 
o fe/) 
---=:I=S L) ItJ c.. 
Sc f -+ Gz u ( S U.V"1"'6IZ 
.-.dJ -7./.go