[PDF Metadata]
Pages: 84

[Content]
,. 
UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20555 • 0001 
March 42005 
~ 
MEMORANDUM TO: 
ACR~ Membery_ .S " . 
G-""Izvr"., /c~ . 
FROM:  
Cayetlno Santos Jr., Senior Staff Engineer 
Technical Support Staff 
ACRS/ACNW 
SUBJECT:  CERTIFICATION OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON THE DONALD 
C. COOK UNITS 1 
AND 2 LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION, FEBRUARY 
9,2005­
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 
The minutes 
of the subject meeting were certified on March 2, 2005, as the official record 
of the proceedings 
of that meeting. A copy of the certified minutes is attached. 
Attachment: As stated 
cc: J. Larkins 
S. Duraiswamy 
J. Flack 
M. Snodderly 

UNITED STATES
 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20555 ·0001 
February 28, 2005 
MEMORANDUM TO: Mario Bonaca, Chairman 
ACRS Plant License Renewal Subcommittee 
&...../~i.-~  Se:..' J:;-."'Jr. 
FROM:  Cayetarfo Santos Jr., senTor Staff Engineer, 
Technical Support Staff 
ACRSIACNW 
SUBJECT:  WORKING 
COpy OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS SUBCOMMITTEE 
MEETING 
ON THE DONALD C. COOK UNITS 1 AND 2 LICENSE 
RENEWAL APPLICATION, FEBRUARY 
9,2005 - ROCKVILLE, 
MARYLAND 
A working copy 
of the minutes for the subject meeting is attached for your review. 
Please review and comment 
on them at your earliest convenience. If you are satisfied with 
these minutes please sign, date, and return the attached  certification letter. 
Attachments:  Certification Letter 
Minutes (DRAFT) 
cc 
wlo Attachment: 
J. Larkins 
J. Flack 
S. Duraiswamy 
M. Snodderly 

~" ReOU,_
<:-" ~~ 
UNITED STATES 
t!!
lo+o!II~%.NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
" 
C0  
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS 
~ C 
WASHINGTON. DC 2H55 ·0001
~ l 
~" ~O"" 
****-+<
MEMORANDUM TO: Cayetano Santos Jr., Senior Staff Engineer,
 
Technical Support Staff
 
ACRS/ACNW
 
FROM:  
Mario Bonaca, Chairman
 
ACRS Plant License Renewal Subcommittee
 
SUBJECT:  CERTIFICATION OF THE MINUTES OF THE ACRS 
SUBCOMMITIEE 
MEETING ON THE DONALD C. COOK UNITS 1 AND 2 LICENSE 
RENEWAL APPLICATION, FEBRUARY 
9,2005 - ROCKVILLE, 
MARYLAND 
I hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge 
and belief, that the minutes of the subject meeting 
on February 
9, 2005, are an accurate record of the proceedings for that meeting. 
Mario Bonaca , 
::> Date
 
Plant License Renewal Subcommittee Chairman
 

CERTIFIED on 3/2/05 by Mario Bonaca 
Issued 02/28/05 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
MINUTES OF ACRS PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
 
ON THE DONALD 
C. COOK NUCLEAR POWER PLANT UNITS 1 AND 2
 
FEBRUARY 
9, 2005
 
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND
 
On February 
9, 2005, the Plant License Renewal Subcommittee held a meeting in Room T2B3, 
11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The purpose 
of the meeting was to review and 
discuss the Donald 
C. Cook Units 1 and 2 License Renewal Application (LRA) and Safety 
Evaluation Report (SER) with Open Items. 
The meeting was open to the public. No written comments 
or requests to make oral statements 
were received from members 
of the public related to this meeting. Mr. Cayetano Santos was 
the Designated Federal Official for this meeting. The meeting convened at 1:30 pm and 
adjourned at 5:30 pm on February 
9, 2005. 
ATTENDEES: 
ACRS MEMBERS/STAFF 
Mario Bonaca, Chairman Stephen Rosen, Member 
Victor Ransom, Member William Shack, Member 
Jack Sieber, Member Graham Leitch, Consultant 
John Barton, Consultant 
Cayetano Santos Jr., ACRS Staff 
NRC STAFF/PRESENTERS 
P. Kuo, NRR J. Rowley, NRR 
C. Lauron, NRR E. Reichelt, NRR 
J. Strnisha, NRR C. Li, NRR 
P. Lougheed, Region III M. Morgan, NRR 
Y. Li, NRR J. Fair, NRR 
T. Cheng, NRR O. Chopra, NRR 
R. Subbaratnam, NRR 
J. Zimmerman, NRR 
G. Cranston, NRR R. Hernandez, NRR 
S. Lee, NRR J. Downs, NRR 
K. Hsu, NRR 
V. Rodriguez, NRR 
M. Razzaque, NRR 
L. Lund, NRR 
H. Ashar, NRR 
N. Iqbal, NRR 
M. Mitchell, NRR 
T. Terry, NRR 
L. Tran, NRR G. Suber, NRR 
OTHER ATTENDEES 
M. Miller, AREVA J. Gebbie, AEP 
D. Wooten, Dominion M. Rinckel, AREVA 
R. Finnin, AREVA R. Grumbir, AEP 
1
 

M. Scarpello, AEP P. Schoepf, AEP 
C. Lane, AEP 
N. Haggerty, AEP 
K. Faris, PNNL W. Fromme, NMC 
K. Sakamoto, ..INES 
B. Kalinowski, AEP 
L. Lindquist, AEP 
G. Young, Entergy 
R. Ahrabli, Entergy 
A. Cox, Entergy 
C. Marks, ISL F. Saba, ISL 
S. Pope, ISL 
The presentation slides, handouts used during the meeting, and a complete list of attendees 
are attached to the Office Copy of the meeting minutes. The presentation to the Subcommittee 
is summarized below. 
Opening Remarks 
Mr. Bonaca, Chairman of the Plant License Renewal Subcommittee, convened the meeting and 
made a few introductory remarks. The purpose of this meeting is to review the Indiana 
Michigan Power Company's (I&M) license renewal application (LRA) and the related Safety 
Evaluation Report (SER) with Open Items for the Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant (CNP) Units 1 
and 2. Mr. Bonaca called upon Mr. Kuo of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation (NRR) to 
begin the discussion. 
Staff Introduction 
Mr. Kuo introduced several members of the staff including Mr. Rowley (Project Manager), Ms. 
Lougheed (Inspection Team Leader), and Mr. Cranston (Audit Team Leader). 
CNP License Renewal Application 
Mr. Grumbir, I&M, greeted the Subcommittee and introduced accompanying members of the 
I&M staff. Mr. Grumbir's presentation described CNP's recent operating 
experience, plant 
improvements, plant-specific aging management programs (AMPs), and implementation plans. 
Background 
In a letter dated October 31,2003, I&M submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of CNP 
operating licenses for an additional 20 years. The current licenses for Units 1 and 2 expire on 
October 
25,2014, and December 23,2017, respectively. This is the third plant to be reviewed 
using the new on-site audit process to verify consistency with the Generic Aging Lessons 
Learned (GALL) report. CNP made extensive use of past precedents 
in the LRA. 
Plant Description 
CNP consists of a two, 4-loop Westinghouse pressurized water reactor units with ice condenser 
containments. Unit 1 is licensed for a power output of 3304 MWt, and Unit 2 is  licensed for a 
power output of 3468 MWt. The approximate net electrical outputs of Unit 1 and 2 are 1044 
MWe and 1117 MWe, respectively. CNP has 4 emergency diesel generators, operates on 
an 
18 month fuel cycle, and uses Lake Michigan as the ultimate heat sink. 
2 

Recent Operating Experience 
Some of the recent events at CNP include a design basis recovery effort (September 1997 ­
December 2000), silt intrusion into the essential service water system (August 2001), and fish 
intrusion (April 2003). Since their last outages, Unit 1 has been operating for 309 days and Unit 
2 has been operating for 73 days. The combined capacity factor for both units 
in 2004 is 92%. 
Mr. Grumbir stated that the Reactor Oversight Process (ROP) has shown improvement 
in 
CNP's performance from 2002 to 2005. In the third quarter of 2002, Unit 1 was in the 
Regulatory Response Column and Unit 2 was 
in the Degraded Cornerstone Column of the ROP 
Action Matrix. 
In 2005 Unit 1 entered the Licensee Response Column and Unit 2 entered the 
Regulatory Response column of the Action Matrix. 
Plant Improvements 
Mr. Grumbir stated that a Nuclear Asset Management plan has been developed through 2037. 
The steam generators for Units 1 and 2 were replaced 
in 2000 and 1988, respectively. In 2002 
and 2003 Appendix K Measurement Uncertainty Recapture power uprates were obtained for 
both units and the reserve auxiliary transformers were replaced. In 2005 CNP will install 
traveling water screens, convert to improved technical specifications, and  add supplemental 
diesel generators. 
In 2006, the Unit 1 turbine rotor will be replaced and a new computerized 
system (INDUS Passport) will be implemented for corrective action processes, work 
management, and commitment management. The reactor heads will be replaced 
in 2006 and 
2007. Plant improvements that are currently under evaluation include dry cask storage, stretch 
power uprates, upgrades to moisture separators, replacement of the Unit 2 main transformer, 
and rewinds of the main generator. 
Industrv Issues 
Inspections of the reactor vessel heads and bottom-mounted instrumentation nozzles were 
performed at CNP due to current industry issues. 
In 2003 a bare metal visual inspection of the 
reactor head of Unit 1 did not show any leaks or boron deposits. Penetration weld repairs were 
performed on the reactor head of Unit 2 
in 2004. In  2003 the bottom-mounted instrumentation 
nozzles were inspected and no indications were found. A Flow-Accelerated Corrosion (FAC) 
operating experience evaluation was performed and showed that historical inspection results 
were acceptable and the prediction model was working properly. 
Scoping and Screening Method 
Mr. Kalinowski, I&M, stated that the scoping and screening methodology applied at CNP 
is 
consistent with previous applications. Under the "spaces" approach used by CNP, all 
components 
in an area of the plant that contained safety-related components were considered 
to 
be in scope. 
Aging Management Programs 
Mr. Kalinowski stated that the Aging Management Reviews (AMRs) were structured to align 
with GALL and the determination of consistency with GALL was applied conservatively. Prior to 
the Aging Management Program audit, information was provided regarding past precedents. 
Of the 46 AMPs at CNP, 16 are plant-specific. Mr. Kalinowski briefly described some of the 
plant specific programs such as Boral Surveillance, lSI Augmented Inspection, Instrument Air 
Quality, and Structures Monitoring. 
3 

Commitment Tracking 
Mr. Grumbir stated that commitments documented 
in the LRA are tracked by CNP's 
commitment management system and adjusted 
as needed. I&M has committed to 
implementing enhancements to the programs prior to entering the period of extended operation 
but a more aggressive internal schedule has been established. Draft procedure changes are 
being developed and should be implemented by 2005. Mr. Grumbir noted that many of these 
enhancements are already being performed but are just not proceduralized. Long-range 
activities will be tracked by CNP's Action Tracking Program. The project plan includes the 
turnover of responsibilities to line departments. 
Mr. Grumbir concluded his presentation by stating that the staff has performed a thorough 
review and American Electric Power is  committed to the safe, long-term operation of CNP. 
SER Overview 
Mr. Rowley led the staff's presentation of the SER with Open Items, the scoping and screening 
review, the AMP reviews and audits, and the time-limited aging analyses (TLAAs). 
The SER with Open Items was issued on December 
21 , 2004, containing two open items and 
two confirmatory items. Since that time resolution has been reached on all of these items. As 
a result of the staff's review 5 components/commodities were brought into scope and subjected 
to an aging management review. 
Mr. Rowley listed the dates of the audits and inspections performed by the staff. 
Scoping and Screening 
Mr. Rowley stated that the scoping and screening methodology is adequately described 
in the 
LRA and satisfies the requirements 
in 10 CFR 54.4 and 10 CFR 54.21 (a)(1). The staff 
reviewed the scoping and screening results to determine if  all structures were properly 
identified. As a result of the staff's review, insulation for pipe and penetrations, emergency 
diesel generator (EDG) exhaust silencers, auxiliary feedwater suction strainers, the EDG Air 
distributor housings, and the spent fuel pool makeup supply refueling water storage tank were 
brought into scope. The staff determined that the systems, structures, and components (SSCs) 
within scope of license renewal and subject to an AMR have been identified. 
Onsite Inspection Results 
Ms. Lougheed, Region III, described the license renewal inspections performed by the staff. 
The objective of the scoping and screening inspection is to confirm that the applicant has 
included all SSCs within the scope of license renewal as required by the rule. During this 
inspection 3 issues were identified regarding partially buried piping, emergency core cooling 
system piping leak detection enclosures, and main steam system stop valves. This inspection 
concluded that the scoping and screening activities successfully identified those SSCs requiring 
an AMR. 
The objective of the AMP inspection is to confirm that the applicant has implemented or plans to 
implement programs to manage the effects of aging. During this inspection the 3 issues 
identified during the scoping and screening inspection were resolved. No issues were identified 
that would be an adverse indicator for license renewal, but two issues were raised regarding the 
FAC Program and the Boral Surveillance Program that required additional review from NRR. 
4
 

Ms. Lougheed described the recent performance of CNP. The licensee is in the Regulatory 
Response Column of the NRC Action Matrix because both units have a white inspection finding 
in the Public Radiation Safety cornerstone and Unit 2 has a white performance indicator in the 
Initiating Events cornerstone. No substantive cross-cutting issues have been identified. The 
staff is conducting an internal end-of-cycle screening meeting and will provide the results to 
licensee and public within the next several weeks. Ms. Lougheed concluded by stating that 
current performance does not show any indicators that would preclude license renewal. 
Aging Management Program Review and Audits 
There are 46 aging management programs at CNP. 33 of these are existing programs and 13 
are new programs. These AMPs can also be categorized by their consistency with GALL. 13 
AMPs are consistent with GALL, 17 AMPs are consistent with exceptions and/or 
enhancements, and 16 AMPs are plant-specific. 
The staff reviewed 34 AMPs using the audit process. Mr. Cranston described some of these 
AMPs such as the Service Water System Reliability Program, the Cast Austenitic Stainless 
Steel (CASS) Program, the System Walkdown Program, and the FAC Program. 
The Service Water System Reliability Program is consistent with GALL with exceptions and 
enhancements. The exception is that heat exchangers will be visually inspected and cleaned 
but will not undergo thermal performance testing. The staff's basis for approving this exception 
is that inspection and cleaning is consistent with the applicant's approved submittal to GL 89-13 
and any adverse inspection findings will result 
in a test of the heat exchanger. In order to be 
consistent with GALL, a physical check for selective leaching will 
be performed during visual 
inspections. 
The CASS program originally cited a previously approved staff position to perform only external, 
visual inspections based on an approved code case. The audit team determined that this code 
case was not applicable to the plant. This AMP was revised to be consistent with GALL so 
volumetric inspections or flaw tolerance evaluations will be performed. 
The System Walkdown Program was credited for managing loss of material 
on both the internal 
an external surfaces of carbon steel materials. The staff requested more information regarding 
thE? basis for this program to detect loss of material on internal surfaces. The applicant made a 
revision that credits a combination of other AMPs (FAC, Service Water System Reliability, and 
One-Time Inspection) with the management of internal aging effects for these components. 
The staff identified 2 issues during the review of the FAC program. The staff found that this 
program was not credited for detecting aging effects 
in main steam nozzles so this AMP was 
revised to include these components. The staff also found that the basis for expansion testing 
in this AMP was not consistent with GALL. In GALL the criteria for sample expansion is 
measured wall thinning greater than predicted. The criteria 
in the LRA was a measured wall 
thickness less than a threshold value. Therefore, the AMP was revised to be consistent with 
GALL with an exception regarding the use of a threshold criteria for sample expansion. 
Mr. Rowley described 2 AMPs that were not reviewed using the audit process. The Reactor 
Vessel Internals Plates, Forgings, Welds, and Bolting Program was not audited because of 
5
 

emerging issues associated with stress corrosion cracking, irradiation assisted stress corrosion 
cracking, and void swelling. The Steam Generator Integrity Program was not audited because 
the replacement steam generator are constructed from Alloy 690 and GALL deals with Alloy 
600. 
One of the issues identified during the AMP inspection that required additional NRR review 
dealt with the Boral Surveillance Program. Inspectors found a potential discrepancy in the 
trending of results from Boral coupons. The staff issued a  Request for Additional Information 
(RAI) to clarify the capability to measure and evaluate these coupons. The applicant provided 
information regarding coupon evaluations, the results of completed evaluations, and the 
schedule for future evaluations. The staff found the response acceptable and closed the issue. 
The staff's review of the AMR results for the reactor vessel, internals, and reactor coolant 
systems; engineered safety features systems; steam and power conversion systems; structures 
and component supports; and electrical and instrumentation and controls did not identify any 
open or confirmatory items. One open item was identified by the staff during the review of the 
AMR results for auxiliary systems. The staff was concerned that the visual inspections 
performed as part of the System Walkdown Program could not effectively manage the effects 
of aging on internal surfaces of components. As a result of the staff's review, a combination of 
3 other AMPs will be used to manage the effects of aging on these internal surfaces. These 3 
AMPs are the FAC Program, the Service Water System Reliability Program, and the One-Time 
Inspection Program. The staff found this acceptable and this open item was closed. 
Data taken from two sample wells at 
CI\IP show that the below grade soil/water environment is 
non-aggressive based on pH, chloride, and sulfate levels. 
The staff concluded that the applicant has demonstrated the effects of aging will be managed 
such that intended functions will be maintained consistent with the current licensing basis for 
the period of extended operation. 
Time Limited Aging Analyses (TLAAs) 
Mr. Rowley described the staff's review of the TLAAs. 
Embrittlement of the reactor vessel affects TLAAs associated with upper shelf energy (USE), 
pressurized thermal shock (PTS), and pressure-temperature limits. Calculations by the staff 
and applicant demonstrate that the limiting beltline material for each unit exceeds the minimum 
USE acceptance criterion 
in 10 CFR 50 Appendix G through 48 Effective Full Power Years 
(EFPY). The staff also performed independent calculations of RT
PTS values and concluded that 
the limiting beltline material continues to meet the screening criterion 
in 10 CFR 50.61 through 
48 EFPY. 
The staff concluded that the cumulative usage factors (CUF) for Class 1 components will not 
exceed 1. The staff also determined that for Non-Class 1 components the fatigue analyses 
remain valid for the period of extended operation. The applicant has committed to additional 
actions for the auxiliary spray line, pressurizer surge line, residual heat removal piping, and 
charging and safety injection nozzles. These additional actions are to either (1) perform a 
plant-specific fatigue analysis, (2) repair the affected piping, (3) replace the affected piping, or 
(4) manage the effects of fatigue by an I\IRC-approved program. One of the confirmatory items 
6
 

listed in the draft SER was to revise the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report Supplement to 
include these commitments. 
The applicant's Environmental Qualification Program is  consistent with GALL and will continue 
to manage equipment 
in accordance with 10 CFR 50.49. 
A concrete containment tendon prestress TLAA is  not applicable at CNP. 
The applicant has committed to performing additional evaluations of containment penetrations 
to satisfy the requirements of 10 CFR 54.21 
(c)(1 )(i). The second confirmatory item listed in the 
draft SER was to revise the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report Supplement to include this 
commitment. 
One of the plant-specific TLAAs is  a fatigue analysis of the ice condenser lattice frame. Past 
operating experience indicates that the operational basis earthquake limit of 400 used 
in the 
analysis will not be exceeded during the period of extended operation. Therefore, the staff 
concluded that this analysis remains valid 
in accordance with 10 CFR 54.21 (c)(1 )(1). 
Mr. Rowley stated that the applicant has identified the appropriate TLAAs and demonstrated 
that either (1) the TLAAs are valid for the period of extended operation, (2) the TLAAs have 
been projected to the end of the period of extended operation, or (3) that aging effects will be 
adequately managed for the period of extended operation. 
Mr. Rowley concluded by stating that the applicant has met the requirements for license 
renewal and there is  reasonable assurance that activities will continue to be conducted 
in the 
renewal term 
in accordance with the current licensing basis. 
Member Comments 
General 
Chairman Bonaca made the following general comments regarding the last 3 license renewal 
applications reviewed by the subcommittee. 
•  Many of the new AMPs are not fully developed. The audit reports describe these new 
programs as adequate but add that a final determination will not be made until after the 
program details have been developed. Chairman Bonaca is  concerned that a large 
number of these undefined programs could impact workload and leave any ACRS letter 
unsupported. Consultant Leitch stated that a valid reason for accepting programs that 
have not been fully developed 
is if technical work is  still occurring in that area. 
Consultant Leitch also noted that for new programs 
in which there is  no equivalent 
GALL program, there is  essentially nothing to review. Consultant Barton added that 
some AMPs should be implemented sooner than just prior to entering the period of 
extended operation. 
•  Applicants are taking the same exceptions to GALL for AMPs associated with buried 
piping/tanks/cables and fire protection. If these exceptions are always acceptable to the 
staff, they should be justified and placed 
in GALL. Consultant Barton noted an 
inconsistency 
in the Buried Piping Inspection Program in that some applicants will 
7 

perform a one-time inspection of these components prior to extended operation while 
others will only inspect as part of maintenance activities. 
• The audit report is  very insightful and should be better integrated into the SER. 
Consultant Leitch asked why power levels for each unit are different. The applicant stated that 
the units use different fuel assemblies and turbine generators. The nuclear steam supply 
equipment for both units are virtually identical. 
In response to a question from Member Sieber, the applicant stated the capacity of the 
emergency diesel generators is 3500 kW. 
The Design Basis Recovery effort at CNP required the reconstitution of a large number of 
safety systems. 
In response to a question 'from Consultant Leitch, the applicant described an 
open issue associated with the operability of 4 kV breakers. These breakers are overdutied 
and will be replaced 
in the next outage. 
In response to a question from Member Sieber, the applicant stated that the maintenance 
outage for Unit 2 
in November 2004 was due to leakage in a primary side pressurizer manway. 
The gasket for this manway is not 
in scope for license renewal because it  is  a short-lived 
component that is  replaced every 8 years. 
Several Members asked about the ice condenser. It was noted that the LRA lacked a lot of 
specific information about the ice condenser and many of its components were not included 
in 
scope. The applicant stated that rebuilding of the ice condenser part of containment was 
completed as part of the Design Basis Recovery effort 
in 2000. A detailed examination of the 
ice condenser components was performed for scoping and a specific AMP exists for the ice 
condenser. The applicant described the various components 
in the ice condenser and their 
functions. 
Consultant Leitch asked if there are any recent inspection findings that are not green. The 
applicant described one issue associated with the transportation of contaminated material 
in 
which the dose rate on the exterior of the container exceeded a Department of Transportation 
limit. Consultant Leitch and Member Rosen also asked about the status of performance 
indicators (PI). The applicant stated that there is  a white 
PI for Unit 2 for scrams with loss of 
normal heat removal. The root cause of the problem was closing of MSIVs following a scram. 
It was resolved by revising the EOPs to throttle back auxiliary feedwater earlier 
in the 
sequence. 
Member Sieber asked about the steam generators. The applicant stated that the Unit 2 steam 
generators are constructed from thermally treated Alloy 690. The number of plugged tubes for 
Unit 1 and 2 are 4 and 16, respectively. 
Chairman Bonaca and Member Sieber asked about the supplemental diesel generators that will 
be added to the plant 
in 2005. The applicant stated these diesel generators are not safety 
grade and will provide redundancy. 
In response to a question from Consultant Leitch, the 
applicant stated that CNP does have containment igniters but they do not have a backup power 
supply. The applicant added that the supplemental diesels will be sized such that they can 
provide back-up power to the igniters. 
8
 

..
 
Chairman Bonaca and Member Shack asked about the reactor vessel heads at CNP. The 
applicant stated that Unit 1 has a medium susceptibility head while Unit 2 has a high 
susceptibility head. Two penetration weld repairs were performed on the Unit 2 head because 
of indications found by dye penetrant (PT) exams. These penetrations were repaired by weld 
overlays. 
In response to a question from Consultant Leitch, the applicant stated that the CDF for each 
unit is  4.28x1 
0-
5
• 
Consultant Leitch noted that a certain crane manufacturer has reported concerns with 
overstressing 
in certain components. The staff stated that 1 crane at CNP is  affected by this 
issue and it is  currently being reviewed by the resident inspectors. 
Scoping and Screening 
Consultant Leitch asked for clarification regarding the "spaces" approach used for the scoping 
of 10 CFR 54.4(a)(2) components 
in which all components in an area of the plant that contained 
safety-related components were considered to be 
in scope. The applicant stated that an area is 
defined as a room so all components 
in the same room as safety-related components are in 
scope. Consultant Barton commented that this approach led to generic grouping of 
components making it difficult to determine if specific components 
in a system were adequately 
covered 
in the AMPs. Consultant Barton added that the "spaces" approach led to numerous 
RAls from the staff. . 
Consultant Leitch asked how scoping can be performed without locating all of the anchor 
points. The applicant stated it was assumed that everything from the the nonsafety-related to 
safety-related interface out to the first major component was 
in scope. 
Chairman Bonaca asked about the 5 components/commodities that were brought into scope as 
a result of the staff's review. The staff stated that certain portions of insulation were credited 
with limited heat load 
in post accident conditions so they were brought into scope during a 
review of the methodology. The other components were simply overlooked and brought into 
scope during the review of the scoping and screening results for mechanical systems. 
Consultant Leitch asked about the function of the leak detection enclosures that surround 
emergency core cooling piping outside containment. The staff stated that they are not safety­
related and serve to funnel water to a collection point. 
Aging Management 
Several Members asked about the criteria for expanding the scope of inspection 
in the FAC 
program. The applicant stated that this program 
is consistent with EPRI guidance and uses an 
expansion criterion of 60% of the wall thickness. The staff added that 
in no case will the wall 
thickness be less than the minimum wall thickness. If a discrepancy 
is found between 
inspections and predictions, all other predicted values will be revised. These revised 
predictions may lead to further expansions of the inspection scope. 
Consultants Leitch and Barton asked about an inspection finding 
in which a pipe was found to 
be partially buried 
in the sand. The applicant stated that this pipe was located outdoors so the 
sand had accumulated around the pipe naturally. The System Walkdown Program was revised 
to look for significant changes 
in environment. 
9 

·.
 
There was a discussion about the BoraI Surveillance Program. Consultant Barton asked for the 
basis 
in extending the inspection interval from 2 years to 5 years. The applicant provided data 
that demonstrates boral degradation is  not expected to be significant. The staff added that 5 
years 
is consistent with a vendor recommendation. Consultant Leitch noted that removal of 
boral samples have been missed 
in the past. Consultant Leitch asked why an RAI on this 
program was issued so late 
in the review process. The staff stated that the RAI resulted from a 
discrepancy found during the AMP inspection which did not occur until November 2004. 
Consultant Barton asked when the Buried Piping Inspection Program will be implemented. The 
applicant stated that a date has not yet been determined. 
There was a discussion regarding the System Walkdown Program. Consultant Leitch 
expressed concern about the effectiveness of these inspections for components 
in the same 
room as the main steam system stop valves. The staff stated that external degradation 
in this 
environment should not be significant. These areas are accessible during normal operation but 
pipes can't be inspected because they are covered with insulation. The applicant stated that 
system walkdowns during normal operation look for any evidence of aging such as vibration, 
support degradation, and dripping water. 
In addition opportunistic inspection of these pipes 
would be performed when insulation is  removed during outages or maintenance activities. 
Consultant Barton questioned whether these walkdowns are actually being performed quarterly 
and whether it will continue at that frequency during the period of extended operation. 
Consultant Leitch noted that there is  a history of problems and procedure noncompliance with 
this program. The applicant stated that the engineering resources of the plant have been 
reorganized to ensure that system engineers can effectively perform these walkdowns at the 
necessary frequency. Pis have also been established to measure their effectiveness. 
Consultant Leitch asked why hydraulic fluids are not subject to an AMP. The applicant stated 
that hydraulic fluids are periodically sampled 
in order to determine when they should be 
replaced. 
Chairman Bonaca and Member Rosen asked about the Service Water System Reliability 
Program. Chairman Bonaca asked how visual inspections can ensure the thermal performance 
of a heat exchanger. The staff stated that 
in addition to visual inspection, heat exchangers are 
cleaned to return them to an "as-new" condition. The applicant listed some of the heat 
exchangers that would be covered by this AMP. 
The Diesel Fuel Monitoring Program takes an exception to GALL 
in that it will not monitor for 
microbiologically induced corrosion (MIC) because past operating experience has not shown 
this to be a problem. Consultant Leitch stated that this was a weak argument and noted that 
other plants have experienced MIC 
in these tanks. A similar issue exists with the domestic 
water supply system at CNP 
in which there is no guarantee that conditions will not change in 
the future. Chairman Bonaca added that these issues are generic and apply to the current 
licensing basis. 
Consultant Leitch noted that a number of follow-up items 
in the audit report related to 
elastomers. The staff stated that this was due to insufficient information provided by the 
applicant 
in the original application. 
10
 

·, 
TLAAs 
The reactor vessel neutron embrittlement TLAAs assumed 48 EFPY at the end 
o'f license 
extension. Consultant Leitch stated that this 
is appropriate for CNP but for other plants 54 
EFPY would be more reasonable. 
Consultant Leitch asked about the exception to the 
PT limit calculation that permitted the use of 
Code Case 
N641 rather than 10 CFR 50 Appendix G. The staff stated that this code case 
allows the use of the crack initiation fracture toughness curve instead of the crack arrest 
fracture toughness curve and has recently been incorporated into Section 
XI of the ASME 
Code. 
The Cumulative Usage Factor (CUF) for the Pressurizer Surge line 
is shown to be 4.5 at 60 
years. Consultant Leitch asked if the CUF 
is currently greater than 1 and if so what corrective 
actions have been taken. The staff stated that more detailed fatigue calculations and fatigue 
monitoring would result 
in a lower CUF. However, the staff could not justify requiring all plants 
to perform the more detailed analysis for the current licensing basis. 
In response to a question from Consultant Barton, the staff stated that components in the 
Environmental Quali'fication Program that were originally qualified for 40 years will be 
requalified for the period of extended operation. 
Member Shack noted 
in the LRA that the TLAA associated with Leak-Before-Break did not 
discuss stress corrosion cracking 
in dissimilar metal welds. The applicant stated that this is 
described in the Alloy 600 AMP. 
Table 
4.3-1 (page 4.3-13) of the LRA shows zero loss of load transients logged as of 10/31/98 
and zero projected at 60 years of operation. Consultant Leitch asked if these numbers were 
accurate. The applicant committed to providing that information at a later date. 
Subcommittee Discussion 
The Consultants and Members suggested that the following topics be discussed at the Full 
Committee meeting: 
•  A description of the ice condenser and the license renewal activities (scoping, screening, 
and aging management) associated with its components 
•  Improvements 
in the commitment tracking process 
•  The "spaces" methodology used 
in scoping of 10 CFR 54.4(a)(2) components 
•  The resolution of the open item associated with the FAC program 
•  The effectiveness of the System Walkdown Program 
Subcommittee Decisions and Follow-up Actions 
The Subcommittee will summarize the discussions to the full Committee during the February 
2005 ACRS meeting. 
11 

,. 
'.
 
Background Materials Provided to the Committee 
1.  License Renewal Application for Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Units 1 and 2, October 31, 
2003 
2.  Donald C. Cook Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2 NRC License Renewal 
Scoping/Screening Inspection Report 05000315/2004003; 05000316/2004003, June 22, 
2004 
3.  Information Systems Laboratories, Inc., Audit and Review Report for Plant Aging 
Management Reviews and Programs, Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 &2, 
September 22, 2004 
4.  Safety Evaluation Report with Open Items Related to the License Renewal of the Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 dated December 2004 
5.  Donald C. Cook Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2 NRC Aging Management Program 
Inspection Report 
No. 05000315/2004013; 05000316/2004013, January 10, 2005 
6.  Letter dated January 21,2005, from Joseph 1\1. Jensen, Site Vice President, Indiana 
Michigan Power Company, to NRC Document Control Desk, Subject: Response to Open 
Item and Confirmatory Items 
in the Draft Safety Evaluation Report Related to the License 
Renewal of Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
********************************************* 
NOTE: 
Additional details of this meeting can be obtained from a transcript of this meeting available in 
the NRC Public Document Room, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD, 
(301) 415-7000, downloading or viewing on the Internet at 
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/acrs/, or can be purchased from Neal 
R. Gross 
and Co., 1323 Rhode Island Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20005, (202) 234-4433 (voice), 
(202) 387-7330 (fax), nrgross@nealgross.com (e-mail). 
*********************************************** 
12
 

2885 
, 
Federal Register/Vol. 70, No. l1/Tuesday, January 18, ZOOs/Notices 
and considered as described in 
Appendix E of the environmental 
document 
and include comments from 
the Australian Antarctic Division, 
German Federal Environmental Agency, 
Antarctica 
New Zealand, and Antarctic 
Treaty Consultative Meeting 
(ATCM)I 
Council on Environmental Protection 
(CEP). The National Science Foundation 
has made the Final 
EIS/CEE for the 
operation of a high-energy neutrino 
telescope (Project IceCube) at the South 
Pole available on the Internet at: 
http://www.nsf.gov/od/opp/antarct/ 
rrearyr/ceesncecube/ 
icecube-finaCcee.pdf· 
Polly A. Penhale. 
Environmental Officer, Office ofPolar 
Progmms, National Science Foundation. 
[FRDoc. 05-917 Filed 1-14-05; 8:45 amI 
BILLING CODE 755S-01-M 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
[Docket No. 50-131] 
Notice 
and Solicitation of Comments 
Pursuant to 10 CFR 20.1405 and 10 
CFR 50.82(b)(5) Concerning 
Proposed 
Action to Decommission Department 
of Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western 
Iowa Health 
Care System Alan J. 
Blotcky Reactor Facility 
Notice is  hereby given 
that the U.S. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the 
Commission) has received an 
application from the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, Nebraska-Western 
Iowa Health Care System dated 
September 21,2004, for a license 
amendment approving its proposed 
decommissioning plan for the Alan 
J. 
Blotcky Reactor Facility (Facility 
License 
No. R-57) located in Omaha, 
Nebraska. 
In accordance with 10 CFR 20.1405, 
the Commission is providing notice 
and 
soliciting comments from local and 
State governments in the vicinity of the 
site and any Indian Nation or other 
indigenous people 
that have treaty or 
statutory rights that could be affected by 
the decommissioning. This notice 
and 
solicitation of comments is published 
pursuant to 10 CFR 20.1405, which 
provides for publication in the Federal 
Register and in a forum, such as local 
newspapers, letters to State 
or local 
organizations, or other appropriate 
forum, that is readily accessible 
to 
individuals in the vicinity of the site. 
Comments should be 
provided within 
30 days of the date of this notice to 
Patrick 
M. Madden, Chief, Research and 
Test Reactors Section, New, Research 
and Test Reactors Program, Division of 
Regulatory Improvement Programs, Mail 
Stop 012-G13, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, Washington, 
DC 20555. 
Further, 
in accordance with 10 CFR 
50.82(b)(5), notice is  also provided to 
interested persons of the Commission's 
intent to approve the plan by 
amendment, subject to 
such conditions 
and limitations as it deems appropriate 
and necessary, if the plan demonstrates 
that decommissioning will be performed 
in accordance with the regulations in 
this chapter and will not be inimical to 
the common defense 
and security or to 
the health 
and safety of the public. 
A copy 
of the application (Accession 
Number ML042740512) is  available 
electronically for public inspection 
in 
the NRC Public Document Room or from 
the Publicly Available Records 
component of the NRC's Agencywide 
Documents Access and Management 
System (ADAMS). 
ADAMS is accessible 
from the 
NRC web site at (the Public 
Electronic Reading Room) 
http:// 
www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/adams.html. 
Dated in Rockville, Maryland, this 10th 
day of January, 2005. 
For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
Patrick M. Madden, 
Section Chief, Research and Test Reactors 
Section, New, Research 
and Test Reactors 
Program, Division 
ofRegulatoryImprovement 
Programs, Office 
ofNuclearReactor 
Regulation. 
[FR Doc. 05-888 Filed 1-14-05; 8:45 amI 
BILLING CODE 7590-01-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
Advisory Committee on Reactor 
Safeguards Subcommittee Meeting on 
Planning and Procedures; Notice of 
Meeting 
The 
ACRS Subcommittee on Planning 
effectiveness, ACRS subcommittee 
structure, 
and other activities related to 
the conduct of ACRS business. It will 
also discuss issues related to power 
uprates. 
Friday, January 28, 2005-8:30 a.m. 
until the conclusion 
ofbusiness. 
The Subcommittee will continue to 
discuss ACRS business processes, 
anticipated workload, and other 
activities related to the conduct 
of ACRS 
business. It will also discuss certain 
proactive committee initiatives. 
The Subcommittee will gather 
information, analyze relevant issues and 
facts, 
and formulate proposed positions 
and actions, as appropriate, for 
deliberation 
by the full Committee. 
Members 
of the public desiring to 
provide oral statements 
and/or written 
comments 
should notify the Designated 
Federal Official, Dr. John 
T. Larkins 
(telephone: (301) 415-7360) between 
7:30 a.m. 
and 4:15 p.m. (ET) five days 
prior to the meeting, if possible, so that 
appropriate arrangements can be made. 
Electronic recordings will be permitted 
only during those portions of the 
meeting that are 
open to the public. 
Further information regarding this 
meeting 
can be obtained by contacting 
the Designated Federal Official between 
7:30 a.m. 
and 4:15 p.m. (ET). Persons 
planning to 
attend this meeting are 
urged to contact 
the above named 
individual at least two working days 
prior 
to the meeting to be advised of any 
potential changes 
in the agenda. 
Dated: January 11, 2005. 
John H. Flack, 
Acting Bmnch Chief, ACRSIACNW. 
[FR Doc. 05-889 Filed 1-14-05; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 7590-01-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
and Procedures will hold a meeting on \L.. . 
January 27-28, 2005, Room T-2B3,-1\AdVISOry Committee on Reactor 
11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, 
Maryland. 
The entire meeting will be open to 
public attendance, with the exception 
of 
a portion 
that may be closed pursuant 
to 5 
~.S.~. 552b(c)(2) and (6) to discuss 
orgamzatIonal 
and personnel matters 
that relate solely to internal personnel 
rules 
and practices of ACRS, and 
information the release of 
which would 
constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion 
of personal privacy. 
The agenda for the subject meeting 
shall be 
as follows: 
Thursday, January 
27,2005-8:30 
a.m. until the conclusion of business. 
The Subcommittee will discuss 
ACRS 
business processes, anticipated 
workload, potential areas for improved 
Safeguards Meeting of the 
Subcommittee on Plant License 
Renewal; Notice 
of Meeting 
The ACRS Subcommittee on Plant 
License Renewal will 
hold a meeting on 
February 
9, 2005, Room T-2B3, 11545 
Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. 
The entire meeting will be open to 
public attendance. 
The agenda for the subject meeting 
shall be as follows: 
. 
Wednes~ay, February 9,2005-1.30 
p.m. untIl 5 p.m. 
The purpose of this meeting is  to 
discuss the License Renewal 
Application 
and associated Safety 
Evaluation Report 
(SER) with Open 
Items related to the License Renewal of 

2886 
Federal Register / Vol. 70, No. 11 / Tuesday, January 18, 2005/ Notices 
the Donald C. Cook Plant, Units 1 and 
2. The Subcommittee will hear 
presentations by and hold discussions 
with representatives of the NRC staff, 
Indiana Michigan Power Company, and 
other interested persons regarding this 
matter. 
The Subcommittee will gather 
information, analyze relevant issues and 
facts, and formulate proposed positions 
and actions, as appropriate, for 
deliberation 
by the full Committee. 
Members 
ofthe public desiring to 
provide oral statements 
and/or written 
comments should notify the Designated 
Federal Official, Mr. Cayetano Santos 
(telephone 
301/415-7270) five days 
prior to the meeting, ifpossible, so that 
appropriate arrangements can be made. 
Electronic recordings 
will be permitted. 
Further information regarding this 
meeting 
can be obtained by contacting 
the Designated Federal Official between 
7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. (ET). Persons 
planning to attend this meeting are 
urged to contact the above named 
individual at least two working days 
prior to the meeting to be advised of any 
potential changes to 
the agenda. 
Dated: January 10, 2005. 
John H. Flack, 
Acting Branch Chief, ACRSIACNW. 
[FR Doc. 05-891 Filed 1-14-05; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 7591Hl1-P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
Biweekly Notice; Applications and 
Amendments 
to Facility Operating 
Licenses Involving 
No Significant 
Hazards Considerations 
I. Background 
Pursuant to section 189a.(2) of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended 
(the Act), the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission (the Commission or NRC 
staff) is publishing this regular biweekly 
notice. 
The Act requires the 
Commission publish notice of any 
amendments issued, or proposed to be 
issued and grants the Commission the 
authority to issue and make 
immediately effective any amendment 
to an operating license upon a 
determination by the Commission 
that 
such amendment involves no significant 
hazards consideration, 
notwithstanding 
the pendency before the Commission of 
a request for a hearing from any person. 
This biweekly notice includes all 
notices of amendments issued, or 
proposed to be issued from December 
23, 2004, through January 5, 2005. 
The 
last biweekly notice was published on 
January 4,2005 (70 FR 398). 
Notice of Consideration 
of Issuance of 
Amendments to Facility Operating 
Licenses, Proposed No Significant 
Hazards Consideration Determination, 
and Opportunity for a Hearing 
The Commission has made a 
proposed determination 
that th~ 
following amendment requests mvolve 
no significant hazards consideration. 
Under the Commission's regulations in 
10 CFR 50.92, this means 
that operation 
of 
the facility in accordance with the 
proposed amendment would ~ot (1) 
involve a significant increase m the 
probability or consequences of an 
accident previously evaluated; or (2) 
create the possibility of a new or 
different 
kind of accident from any 
accident previously evaluated; or 
(3) 
involve a significant reduction in a 
margin of safety. The basis for this 
proposed determination for 
each 
amendment request is shown below. 
The Commission is seeking public 
comments on this proposed 
determination. Any comments received 
within 30 days after the date of 
publication of this notice will be 
considered 
in making any final 
determination. Within 60 days after 
the 
date of publication of this notice, the 
licensee may file a request for a hearing 
with respect to issuance of the 
amendment to the subject facility 
operating license 
and any person whose 
interest may be affected 
by this 
proceeding 
and who wishes to 
participate as a party 
in the proceedi.ng 
must file a written request for a hearmg 
and a petition for leave to intervene. 
Normally, the Commission will not 
issue the amendment 
until the 
expiration of 60 days after the date of 
publication of this notice. The 
Commission may issue the license 
amendment before expiration of the 60­
day period provided 
that its final 
determination is that the 
amendment 
involves no significant hazards 
consideration. In addition, the 
Commission may issue 
the amendment 
prior to the expiration of the 30-day 
comment period should circumstances 
change during the 30-day 
comment 
period such that failure to act in a 
timely way 
would result, for example in 
derating or shutdown of the facility. 
Should the Commission take action 
prior to 
the expiration of either the 
comment period or the notice period, 
it 
will publish in the Federal Register a 
notice 
of issuance. Should the 
Commission make a final No Significant 
Hazards Consideration Determination, 
any hearing will take place after 
issuance. 
The Commission expects that 
the need to take this action will occur 
very infrequently. 
Written comments may be submitted 
by mail to the Chief, Rules and 
Directives Branch, Division of 
Administrative Services, Office of 
Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, WC\shington, 
DC 20555­
0001, and should cite the publication 
date 
and page number of this Federal 
Register notice. Written comments may 
also be delivered to Room 6D22, Two 
White Flint North, 11545 Rockville 
Pike, Rockville, Maryland, from 7:30 
a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Federal workdays. 
Copies of written comments received 
may be examined at the Commission's 
Public Document Room (PDR), located 
at One White 
Flint North, Public File 
Area 01F21, 11555 Rockville Pike (first 
floor), Rockville, Maryland. 
The filing of 
requests for a hearing 
and petitions for 
leave to intervene is discussed below. 
Within 60 days after 
the date of 
publication 
of this notice, the licensee 
may file a request for a hearing with 
respect to issuance of the amendment to 
the subject facility operating license and 
any 
person whose interest may be 
affected by this proceeding 
and who 
wishes to participate as a party in the 
proceeding 
must file a written request 
for a hearing 
and a petition for leave to 
intervene. Requests for a hearing 
and a 
petition for leave to intervene shall be 
filed in accordance 
with the 
Commission's "Rules of Practice for 
Domestic Licensing Proceedings" in 10 
CFR part 2. Interested persons 
should 
consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.309, 
which is available at the Commission's 
PDR, located at 
One White Flint North, 
Public File Area 01F21, 11555 Rockville 
Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland. 
Publicly available records will be 
accessible from 
the Agencywide 
Documents Access 
and Management 
System's (ADAMS) Public Electronic 
Reading Room 
on the Internet at the 
NRC Web site, http://www.nre.gov/ 
reading-rm/doe-eolleetionslcfrl. 
Ifa 
request for a hearing or petition for 
leave to intervene is filed 
within 60 
days, 
the Commission or a presiding 
officer designated 
by the Commission or 
by the Chief Administrative Judge of the 
Atomic Safety and Licensing Board 
Panel, will 
rule on the request andlor 
petition; and the Secretary or the Chief 
Administrative Judge of the Atomic 
Safety 
and Licensing Board will issue a 
notice of a hearing or 
an appropriate 
order. 
As required 
by 10 CFR 2.309, a 
petition for leave to intervene shall set 
forth 
with particularity the interest of 
the petitioner in the proceeding, and 
how that interest may be affected by the 
results of the proceeding. 
The petition 
should specifically explain the reasons 
why intervention should be permitted 

Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards
 
Plant License Renewal Subcommittee Meeting
 
Donald C. Cook Units 1 and 2
 
February 9, 2005
 
Rockville, MD
 
-PROPOSED SCHEDULE-
Cognizant Staff Engineer: Cayetano Santos Jr. CXS3@NRC.GOV (301) 415-7270 
Topics  
Presenters 
Time 
Opening Remarks  M. Bonaca, ACRS 
1:30 pm 
-1:35 pm 
II Staff Introduction  P.T. Kuo, NRR 
1:35 
pm -1:40 pm 
2.._.;~ 
III DC Cook License Renewal Application  R. Grumbir, 
1:40 pm 
:)46pm 
Indiana Michigan 
Power Company 
A.  Application Background 
B.  Description of DC Cook 
C.  Operating History 
D.  Scoping Discussion 
E.  Application of GALL 
F.  Commitment Process 
~ /' .,.-/
,1') >y ~ 
IV SER 
Overview  
J. Rowley, NRR ~m -~pm 
P. Lougheed, Region III 
A.  Scoping and Screening Methodology Results 
B.  Onsite Inspection Results 
BREAK 
V Aging Management Program Review  J. Rowley, NRR 
and Audits  G. Cranston, NRR 
if ~J }ocJ 
VI 
Time Limited Aging Analyses 
J. Rowley, NRR A-:{)O pm -~ pm 
5.0':> S'~..) 
VII Subcommittee Discussion  
M. Bonaca, ACRS ~O pm -~pm 
YJu 
VIII Adjourn  M. Bonaca, ACRS _~ pm 
NOTE: 
•  Presentation time should not exceed 50 percent 
of the total time allocated for a specific 
item. The remaining 50 percent 
of the time is  reserved for discussion. 
•  50 copies 
of the presentation materials to be provided. 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
February 
9. 2005
 
Date 
NRC STAFF SIGN IN FOR ACRS MEETING 
PLEASE PRINT 
NAME NRC ORGANIZATION 
~h/l Lau:o
n 
IJ~I oe) f3kC8 
Lt\ '-Rcc\.c\-\y:cr 
.h'M.. "S~~\.~"-9.. 
< 
Q~ 0/hv57bAl 
1(~v..r JJet'~~ da
 
tJ RR{ ~ $~A ISf...::..L.:....::,ta _ 
II 
~¢i~~~c~AJ4
 
~;J4/v~1 ~c t) 
/<J rt. n-/ 1)~ I[;,..".\:-(} 
"I 
N~~. \~W \~R:...=L:::::..:;;.,~-+--_ 
N~QWJ~P-A _ 
/V)l£-O/V~ /,eL e/'-B 
\I.e~N..'.C..Kcdri~\Ae""L 
-::¢£LN~ 
!v,ulk tuJ 
Hilt I J)/l-I &Uf
I 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
February 
9. 2005
 
Date
 
NRC STAFF SIGN IN FOR ACRS MEETING 
PLEASE PRINT 
NAME NRC ORGANIZATION 
,}{r!PPdl T/feI 
/Vf~'£~0 
Mft-ID\Uf I ~J£f _ 
tJ(J( r1)(IfJ) te.L f:f 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON REACTOR SAFEGUARDS
 
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING ON PLANT LICENSE RENEWAL
 
February 9. 2005
 
Date
 
PLEASE PRINT 
NAME 
AFFI 
L1ATION 
\\~"\t~d V\,.\.:-\v~ _ 
I\vLeQV\ 
""30ll\ (s-e.-bbu 
'±~(xbAt'\t 1M S~ k~ vvtO\P 
f; of) J(A L ;'u 0 W ~ 1/ 
At! 
L.J·L\~~lS\
 
C/1 if fYJ~ tZ ks
 
PAY-I'd.,), 546 ~ 
TSL 
) ~~v--e.. f Ci ~ e" 

1 
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant
 
Richard Grumbir 
Indiana Michigan Power Company 
February 9, 2005 ~AMIiICAN~ 
*"flKl'IIC 
POWfI 
AE!:.t1IINi»'J ~P1lrtrwr'" 

2 
Introduction 
•  Application Background 
•  Description of Cook 
Nuclear Plant 
•  
Recent Operating 
Experience 
•  Scoping/Screening 
•  
Aging Management 
Programs 
•  Implementation 
.AMIIUII@)
fiM 
RKr
•
 
JIIOWf.
 
Al/;bwmt hiz;!IlftrIer.. 

3 
Application Background 
• Application submitted -October 31, 2003 
• Original license expiration 
Unit 1 -October 25, 2014 
Unit 2 -December 23, 2017 
• New process 
-   Third pilot application 
-
Extensive use of past precedent 
•  Thorough review (200+ RAIs) 
-Positive interactions 
-Face-to-face communication effective 
-
Review of onsite material efficient 
~ AMIIUII()
*"RKrM 
JIIOWfI 
Ai/;~~ ~ltI1tnIf.. 

4 
Description of Cook Nuclear Plant 
•  Westinghouse 4-loop
PWR 
•  
Ice Condenser 
Containment 
•  AlE AEP 
•  Rated Thermal Power 
Unit 1 -3304 MWt 
Unit 2 -3468 MWt 
•  Net Electrical Output 
Unit 1 -1044 MWe 
Unit 2 -1117 MWe 
•  Four Emergency Diesel
Generators 
(2/unit) 
•  Once-through cooling­
Lake Michigan UHS 
•  
IBM fuel cycle 
•  AMlIICA"~ 
IiIIRfCl'l1C
 
JIIOWfI
 
Al/:..l1IINQ'I ~lWtrItr'" 

5 
Recent Operating Experience
 
•  Design Basis recovery ­
September 
1997 -December 2000
 
•  Essential Service Water silt intrusion ­
August 
2001
 
•  Fish Intrusion ~ April 2003 
•   Unit 1 -Operating 309 days since April 2004 
•   Unit 2 -Operating 73 days since completing
 
refueling outage 
in November 2004
 
•  Combined 92% Capacity Factor in 2004
 
•  AMIIICAII(l 
iiiilRKI'IIC 
POWII 
AE!:blllfi»'J ~itlttfltf" 

6 
NRC Reactor Oversight 
3<2/2002 status 
• Unit 1 -Regulatory
 
Response Column
 
•  Unit 2 -Degraded 
Cornerstone Column 
• Unit 1 entered Column 1 January 2005 
• NRC Website PI is for 4
th 
quarter 2004 
2005 status
 
•  Unit 1 -Licensee 
Response Column* 
• Unit 2 -Regulatory
 
Response Column
 
•  PI&R cross-cutting issue 
closed (July 2004) 
·AMIIICAN~ 
iiME&!CfI1C
 
JIOWII
 
AE1..A1IIIlI'G~ _ Ptmrwr iii 

7 
Plant Improvements 
Nuclear Asset Management plan through 2037
 
Completed 
• Unit 2 S/G replacement -1988 
• 
• Unit 1 
S/G replacement -2000 
• 
• Appendix K 
MUR Uprate -  2002/2003 
• 
• 
Reserve Aux transformers 
• 
(auto load-tap changing) - 2002/2003 
• 
In 
Progress 
• Traveling water screens -2005 
• 
• 
Conversion to ITS -2005 
• Supplemental diesel generators -2005 
• 
• 
Reactor head replacement -  2006/2007 
• 
Estimated completion dates -  (Unit l/Unit 2) 
Future (under evaluation) 
Dry 
Cask Storage 
Stretch Power Uprate 
Moisture Separator upgrades 
Unit 2 
Main Transformer 
Main Generator rewinds 
Unit 1 Turbine rotor 
replacement -
2006 
INDUS Passport tv2006 
Digital turbine controls -TBD 
~ 
iiII 
sKrlJC 
AMIIICA"~ 
POWf. 
AU:..lllIt!IU~ lMfg; Ptlftrllf" 

8 
Industry Issues 
•  Reactor Head Inspections 
Davis-Besse 
--2002 
•  Unit 1 -2003 -Bare metal visual above-head inspection
No leaks or boron deposits identified 
•  Unit 2 -
2004 -  Penetration weld repair performed 
•  Bottom-Mounted Instrumentation (BMI) 
South Texas Project --2003 
•  Inspections performed, no indications 
•   Flow-Accelerated Corrosion (FAC) 
Mihama Unit 
3, Japan --2004 
• High  FAC rates downstream of orifices 
•  
OE evaluation performed for 1999 and 2004 events 
-Procedural guidance -  downstream piping in-scope 
-  Historical inspections results -  acceptable 
-
Users groups and software credited ~AMlIIWI~ 
"'RKrRIC 
JIlOWII 
AJJ:.tI1tIllD~ ~PartrItr ~ 

9 
Scoping I Screening 
•  Consistent with regulation & past 
applicants 
•  Performed on a plant system basis 
•  10 CFR 54.4(a)(2) applied on a "spaces" 
approach 
-AMlIlCAN& 
"ElEcrRIC 
JIOWII 
AE/:bll!lU'I hi:;Ftmrwr" 

10 
Aging Management Programs 
•  AMRs structured to align with GALL 
•  Conservative appHcation of consistency
 
with GALL 
•  Provided past precedents support prior 
to audiJt 
•  46 AMPs credited; 16 plant-specific 
~AMIIICAN~
iiII
RKfIIC 
POWII 
AlJ:NI/l!/Ul~~!IlTtf/tf.. 

11 
Plant-Specific Programs 
•  Alloy 600 Aging Management 
•  Bolting 
and Torquing Activities 
•  
Boral Surveillance 
•  Bottom-Mounted Instrumentation 
Thimble 
Tube Inspection 
•  Heat Exchanger Monitoring 
•  
151 .. Augmented Inspection 
•  Instrument 
Air Quality 
•  
Oil Analysis 
•  Pressurizer Examinations 
•  Preventative Maintenance 
•  Structures Monitoring 
-Divider Barrier 
Seal 
-Ice Basket 
•  
System Testing 
•  
System Walkdown 
•  Wall Thinning Monitoring 
•  Auxiliary System Water 
Chemistry Control 
• AlU'IICAN() 
"'!lfCfllIC 
POWfI 
MP;bINDtJ €mzJ-IWtntr'" 

12 
Commitments/Implementation
 
•  Tracked by CNP's commitment
 
management system
 
•  Commitments documented in  the 
LRA and 
adjusted 
as needed during review 
•  Commitment 
to implement prior to period 
of extended operation. 
•  More aggressive internal goals 
•  Anticipate good preparation 
for inspections 
prior 
to end of current license. 
-AMIiICAN& 
iMflKrIIC 
JIOWII 
AE!:~'J ~1tImwr'" 

13 
Commitments/Implementation
 
•   Draft procedure changes under development ­

objective 
is to implement most in 2005
 
•  Many of these activities (enhancements) are typically
 
performed, but not proceduralized
 
- Example: Boric Acid Corrosion Program inspection formalized to 
address aggregate impact of leaks on electrical components 
•   Long-range activities will be planned out and tracked in 
CNP's Action Tracking program 
•   Turnover to 
line departments included in project plan 
-Program owner training & involvement in LRA and supporting 
reviews
 
-License Renewal Program owner
 
-
Licensing engineer
 
~ 
iII 
RKrlIC
MAHICANt!J 
POWIR 
AU:bMll'f ~lWtrwr'" 

14 
Closing Remarks 
•  NRC review process was thorough, efficient, 
and effective 
•  
Positive interactions during audits/inspections 
and NRR reviews 
•  LR process provided systematic opportunity 
to refine station 
processes to account for 
aging effects 
• 
AEP is committed to safe, reliable long-term
 
operation of 
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant
 
~AMIIICAN~
iII
RKrlIC 
POWD 
Ai1:bM»1 Wirr F#r!rwr" 

~Excellence 
Recoverv Plan 
Getting better all the time 
Containment 
Divider 
Upper 
Containment 
Spray 
Containment 
Wall 
Ice Condenser ­
Accumulator 
L 
Lower 
Containment 
Spray 
Crane Wall ­
L 
Recirculation 
Sump 

~Excellence 
Ice Condenser Recoverv Plan
 
Getting better all the time 
Operating Deck 
Door Port 
Lower Inlet 
Doors 
Lower Support 
Structure 

1 
~Excellence 
RecovervPlan 
Getting better all the time 
:r.. 1uI:ald t. tv"·' ~..d ..... p,,,T.= 
J.a~::; l'j,l~:tl1. ~·IC'·_;.J f,\I. ~bL.s 
if(X\~'::'~ of b.;uii ~:,;l.ti,* ,,;td 
,.:"',,_p ...f (."""r"r~ !~r i." 1"", 
'::6"~e1Il''''r ,liT""" ~ 1 :f):"~:.:tr_"'W:!':'Iit. 

~Excellence 
RecovervPlan 
Getting better all the time 
I ~ CONTAINMENT SHELL 
WEAR 
SLAB 
STEEL PLATE 
EMBEDDED COOLING PIPES 
(FLOOR COOLING SYSTEM) 
STRUCTURAL SUB FLOOR 
WATER SOLUBLE 
PAPER DRAIN COVER 
LOWER 
INLET 
DOOR 
DRAIN GRILL 
i 
FOAM CONCRETE 
FLOOR DRAIN 
FLAPPER VALVE 

'\ 
fA! 
. 
... 
~'" 
;~< i 
~
 

\~ . 
: 
r I":
.  f 
" ,., 
" 
<U 
E 
+:l 
<U
..c:.
.... 

~Excellence 
RecovervPlan 
Getting better all the time 
The Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant 
nate: 10/29/74 Photo No. 3340 
lee aaking at Southern Michigan 
Cold 
Storage for ice condenser 
in Unit 1 containment. 

Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards
 
(ACRS) License Renewal Subcommittee
 
Jonathan 
G. Rowley 
Safety Project Manager 
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 & 2 
License Renewal Application 
Safety Evaluation Report with Open Items 
February 
9, 2005 

NRC Review Highlights
 
.• Third license renewal application reviewed as part of the 
pilot program using the audit process 
•   SER with Open Items Issued on 12/21/2004 
•  
Two Open Items 
•  Resolution has been reached since the issuance of the SER 
with Open Items 
•  Two Confirmatory Items 
•  Resolution has been reached since the issuance of the SER 
with Open Items 
•  Brought into scope and subjected to Aging Management

Review (AMR)
 
•  Five (5) components/commodities 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
2 

NRC Audits and Inspections
 
• Aging Management Programs Audit 
•   December 15 -  19, 2003
 
• Scoping and Screening Methodology Audit 
•  January 13 -  16, 2004
 
• Aging Management Review Audit 
•   March 1 -5, 2004
 
• Scoping and Screening Inspection 
•   May17-21, 2004 
• Aging Management Program Inspection 
•   November 1 -19, 2004
 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
3 

Section 2 -Structures & Components 
Subject to an AMR 
Section 2.1 -  Scoping and Screening Methodology
 
•   Describes methodology used to identify structures, 
systems, and components (SSCs) that are within the 
scope of the license renewal rule and subject to an 
AMR 
•   Items brought into scope: 
•  Insulation -  Pipe and Penetrations 
•   Staff audit and subsequent interaction determined 
that the applicant's methodology satisfies 10 CFR 
54.4 and 10 CFR 54.21 (a)(1). 
February 9.2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
4 

Section 2 -Structures & Components 
Subject to an AMR 
Section 2.2 -  Plant Level Seoping Results 
• Staff reviewed Section 2.2 to determine if all 
plant level systems and structures that are 
within the scope of license renewal were 
properly identified. 
-----• Staff review did not identify any omissions. 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
5 

Section 2 -Structures &Components 
Subject to an AMR 
Section 2.3 System Scoping and Screening Results ­
Mechanical Systems 
•  Includes the following systems: 
•  Reactor Coolant System 
•  Engineered Safety Features Systems 
•  Auxiliary Systems 
•  Steam and Power Conversion Systems 
•  Items brought into scope: 
•  Emergency Diesel Generator (EDG) Exhaust Silencers 
•  Auxiliary Feed Water (AFW) Suction Strainers 
•  EDG Air distributor housings 
•  Spent Fuel Pool (SFP) Makeup Supply -Refueling Water 
Storage Tank (RWST) 
February 9,2005 
AGRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
6 

Section 2 -Structures & Components 
Subject to an 
AMR 
Section 2.4 Scoping and Screening Results ­
Structures 
•   Discusses the following structures: 
•   Containment 
•   Auxiliary Building 
•  Turbine Building and Screenhouse 
•  Yards Structures 
•   Structura'i Commodities 
•   Staff did not identify any omissions or discrepancies
 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
7 

Section 2 -Structures & Components 
Subject to an AMR 
Section 2.5 Scoping and Screening Results -Electrical 
and Instrumentation and Controls Systems 
•  Discusses the following Non-Environmental Qualification (EQ) 
Component Commodity 
Groups: 
•   Electrical cables and connections 
•   Inaccessible medium voltage cables 
•   Electrical connectors 
•   Switchyard bus for station blackout 
(S80) connections 
•   High voltage insulators 
•  Components subject to 
EQ requirements are addressed 
separately as time-limited aging analyses (TLAA) 
in Section 4.4 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
8 

Scoping and Screening Summary
 
•  Scoping and screening methodology is 
ad"equately described and justiti~edin the LRA 
and satisfies the requirements of 
10 CFR 54.4 
and 10 CFR 
54.21 (a)(1). 
•  Scoping 
and screening revi~e;w results fou;;nd 
that the SSCs within the scope of license 
renewal, 
as required by 10CFR 54.4(a) and 
those subject to 
an AMR, as required by 
10 CFR 
54.21 (a)(1), have been identified. 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
9 

License Renewal Inspections
 
Scoping! and Screening Inspection 
•  OBJECTIVE -To confirm that the a,pplicant hia:s included 
SSCs 
in the scope of license renewal as required by the 
Rule 
•  RESULTS -Th'ree follow up issu~e,s'i:'dentified: 
•   Condensate StoraQ'e Tank pipiing partially buried 
•  Emergency Core Cooling System piping leak detection enclosures 
•  
Main Steam System stop valves room environment 
•  CONCLUSION -Applicant had properly cond'"ucted 
license renewal Scoping and Screening for SSCs 
requiring an aging management review 
a,t D. C. Cook. 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
10 

License Renewal Inspections
 
iAging Management Program (AMP) lns;pection 
•   OBJECTIVE: To confirm that applicant has 
implemented or plans to implement AMPs to manage 
aging effects for in-scope SSCs 
•   RESULTS: 
•  No issues identili:ed whic"h woul!d;be an adverse 
indicator for license renewal 
•  Follow 
up issues from scoping and screening

inspection 
ad:equately resolved
 
•  Two issues required 
furth:er NRRinvolvement: 
•  Flow Accelerated Corrosion Program 
•  Boral Surveillance Program 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant. Units 1 and 2 
11 

Current Performance
 
II Licensee currently in the Regulatory 
ResiponseCol,umn of the 
Nr,R'C·'s Action 
Matrix 
due toa White ins,p\e~ction findi,irng in 
the Public Radiation S:afety cornerstone for 
Units 1 
and 2 and a W;hite performan"ce 
indicator in the In'itiating: Events 
cornerstone for Unit 
2. 
II No substantive cross-cutting issues 
February 9,2005 
AGRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald G. Gook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
12 

Current Performance
 
•  NRC internal end-af-cycle screening'meeting 
being held yesterday and 
tod,ay (February 8 & 
9, 2005). Results will be provided to the 
licensee 
in a I'etter within next 3 weeks and a 
public meeting to 
dIsc:u:ss th,e results will be 
held before April 22, 20'05 (within 16 weeks of 
end of cycle). 
•  CONCLUSION:  Currentperforman.ce does 
not show any indicators that would preclude 
license renewal. 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
13 

Unit 1 Perfoirmance Indicators & 
Inspection Findings (as of 12/31/04) 
Reactor 
Safety 
Radiation 
Safety 
~ 
T T 
Initiating 
Events 
f1 
Mitigating 
Systems 
f1 
Barrier 
Integnty 
Emergency 
Preparedness 
Occupational 
Radiation 
Safety 
PubliC 
Radiation 
Safety 
Penormance Indicators 
Most Significant Inspection Findings 
-
I W(1) 
Last Modified: Januar>j 24, 2005 
February 9,2005 ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
I 
14 

Unit 2 Performtantce I:ndicators & 
Inspection Findings (as of 12/3t104) 
Reactor 
Safety 
Radiation 
Safety 
Reactor Radiation 
Safety 
Safety 
~ i T 
Public
Occupational
Initiating 
Mitigating ~ 
Barrier Emergency 
Radiation Radiation
Events 
.... 
Systems 
Integrity 
Preparedness 
Safety 
Safety 
Performance Indicators 
Most Significant Inspection Findings 
3Q12004 
2012004
-
1Q12004 
I W(1) 
Last ModIfied: January 24, 2005 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
I 
15 

Section 3 -Aging Management 
Review Results 
II Aging Management Programs 
• 46 Total AMPs 
•  33 Existing Programs 
•  13 
New Programs 
•  Generic Aging Lessons Learned (GALL)
 
con;sisten,cy
 
•  13 Consiste'nt 
•  17 Consistent with exceptions and/or enhancements 
•  16 Plant specific 
February 9,2005 AGRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
16 

AGING MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
 
II On-site audits and reviews of AM'Ps
 
• Consistent with GALL 
• Plant specific 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and·2 
17 

Service Water System Reliability
 
•  AM P consistent with GALL 
•  Exception 
•  Enhancement 
•  Exception 
•  Heat exchangers receive visual inspection and cleaning, 
not thermal performance testing. 
•  Basis for accepting 
•  Inspecting and cleaningco'nsistent with applicanfs NRC 
ap;provedGL 89-13 submittal exception 
•   Adverse inspection findi,ngs result 
in h,eat excha'nger test. 
•  Enhancement 
•  Applicant will perform physical check for se,I,ective leaching 
during visual inspection to be consistentwi,th 
GALL 
February 9, 2005 ACRS Subcommittee Meeting­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant,Units 1 and 2 
18 

Cast Austenitic Stainless Steel
 
(CASS)
 
II AMP revised to be consistent with G:ALL 
II Audit team identified program issue 
•  Applicant originally cited previ:ously approved 
staff position to only 
do external, visual 
inspections based 
o"nan a.ppro'ved code cease 
•  Code case reJe:cte'dby audit team as not 
applicable to plant 
~ II Issue resolution 
•  AMP to be consistent with GALL 
•  Will do volumetric inspections or flaw tolerance 
evaluations 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
19 

System Walkdown
 
•  Plant specific AMP 
• Reviewed against program elements of SRP-LR, Appendix A.1 
•  Audit team identified program issue 
•  AMP credited for managing loss of material for internal as well as 
external carbon steel surfaces (Detection of Aging 
Effects) 
•  Staff generated Request for Additional Information (RAI) 
requesting basis for using wal'kdown to detect internal loss of 
material 
•  Issue resolution 
•  Applicant revised program to manage internal aging effects with a 
combination of AMPs: 
•   Flow Accelerated Corrosion 
•   Service Water System Reliability 
•   One-Time Inspection 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
20 

Flow-Accelerated Corrosion
 
(FAC)
 
•   AMP re'vised to be consistent with GALL with exception
 
•   Audit team 
iid'entified issue 
•   AMP did not credit the FAC program for detecting aging 
effects 
in the main steam (MS) nozzl'es 
•  NRC regional LRA inspection identifi,ed issue 
•   Basis for expansion of testing for wall thinning not consistent 
with GALL 
•  GALL -measured waH thinning greater than prediGted 
•  LRA -measured wall thickness less than thresho'I'd criteria 
(Open Item) 
.........iiiIiiiI". Issue resolution
 
•   AMP revised to include MS n,ozzles 
•   AMP reviised to state consistent with GALL with exception 
regarding using threshold value 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee 
Meeting­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
21 

AMP Inspection Issues
 
•   Flow-Accelerated Corrosion Program (Open Item) 
•   Open Item resolved (discussed previo,usly) 
•   Boral Surveillance Program 
•  Inspectors identified potential discrepancy in  the trending of 
results from Boral coupon surveillance. 
•   RAI issued to clarify the capability to measure and evaluate 
coupons. 
•   Applicant provided adiequate det,ails on coupon evaluation, 
results of completed evaluations, and future evaluations 
schedule. 
•   Staff finds response acceptable. Issue has been closed. 
February 9, 2005 
ACHS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
22 

Section 3 -Aging Management 
Review Results 
Section 3.0.3 -  Aging Management Programs 
II 34 AMPs reviewed via audit process 
•  Examples discussed previous,ly 
II 12 AMPs were n;ot revle\1\tedrvia audit process
 
•  Examples: 
•  Reactor Vessel Internals Plates, Forgin
1
gs, Welds, 
and Bolting Program 
•  Steam Generator Integrity Program 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
23 

Section 3 -Aging Management
 
Review Results
 
Section 3.1 -  Reactor Vessel, Internals and 
Reactor 
Co:olant Systems 
Section 3.2 -
Eng,ineered Safety Features System 
Section 3.4 -  Steam 
and Power Conversion 
Systems 
Section 3.5 -  Structures 
and: Component Supports 
./ Section 3.6 -  Electrical an,d In:'strumentati'on and 
Controls 
• 
No Open or Confirmatory Items 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
24 

Aging Management of In-Scope 
Inaccessible Areas-Concrete 
Sample 
Aggressive 
limits 
Sample 
Date 
DC Cook 
Sample Well 
1A 
DC Cook 
Sample Well 
12 
pH 
<5.5 
03/004/1976 
01/015/2002 
6.4 
7.1 
7.8 
7.4 
Chloride 
(ppm) 
>500 ppm 
03/004/1976 
01/015/2002 
20.3 
10 
9.7 
12 
Sulfate (ppm) 
>1500 ppm 
03/04/1976 
01/015/2002 
18.1 
134 
310.3 
67 
• Below grade soil/water environment non-ag,gressive 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
25 

Section 3 -Aging M,anagement 
Review Results 
Section 3.3 -  Auxiliary Systems 
•  Miscellaneous Systems in Scope for 10CFR 54.4(a)(2) 
•  Open Item -  Use of System Walkdown Program to manage 
internal aging effects for 10 CFR 54.4(a)(2) component types. 
•   As a result of the staff's review, the application of a combination 
of three additional AMPs will be used to manage the aging 
effects on internal surfaces: 
•   Flow-Accelerated Corrosion 
,.~'<
'" ~~ ~ 
•   Service Water System Reliability 
•  One-Time Inspection 
•  Use of additional AMPs acceptable to staff. Open Item has 
been resolved. 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
26 

Aging Management Review 
Summar 
•  Aging management review found that the 
applicant has demonstrated that the effects of 
aging will be adequately managed so that the 
intended function(s) will be maintained 
consistent 
with, the current lice1nsing basis for 
the period: 
of extended operation (PEG), as 
required by 10 
CFR 54.21 (a)(1). 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
27 

-Reactor Vessel Neutron Embrittlement 
-Metal Fatigue 
-Environmental Qualification of Electrical 
Components 
-Concrete Containment Tendon Prestress 
.....• Containment Liner and Penetration Fatigue 
~ Analysis 
-Other Plant-Specific TLAAs 
Section 4 -Time-Limited Aging 
Analyses (TLAA) 
February 9,2005 
AGRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
28 

Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.2 -Reactor Vessel Neutron 
Embrittlement 
•  Three analyses affected by irradiation 
embrittlement id·enti·f'i;ed as TLAAs 
• Charpy Upper Shelf Energ.y 
• Pres;surized T.hermal Sh'ock 
• Pressure Temperature Limits 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
29 

Section 4 -TLAA -Charpy Upper 
Shelf Energy (USE) 
II Applicant and staff calculations 
demonstrate the USE acce'ptance 
criterion for the limiting beltline material 
will be met through 48 EFPY. TLAA 
analyses meets the requirements o,f 
10 CFR Part 50, Appendix G, and the 
acceptance criterion in 10 CFR 
54.21 (c)(1)(ii). 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
30 

Section 4 -TLAA -  Charpy Upper 
Shelf Energy (USE) 
Section 4.2 -  Reactor Vessel Neutron Embrittlement
 
Limiting Material 
For 
USE 
USE 
Acceptance 
Criterion 
(ft-Ib) 
Calculated 
USE 
values (ft-Ib) 
48'EFPY 
Conclusion 
Intermediate/lower 
50 57 Criterion is met 
shell circumferential 
for 48 EFPY 
weld (Unit 1) 
Intermediate shell 
50 
67 
Criterion is met 
plate (Unit 2) for 48 EFPY 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
31 

Section 4 -TLAA -  Pressurized 
Thermal Shock (PTS) 
-  The applicant and staff calcutation:s 
demonstrate the screening criterion for 
the limiting beltline RV material will be 
met through 48 EFPY. TLAA analysis 
meets the requirements of 10 CFR 50.61 
and the acceptance criterion for in 
10 CFR 54.21 (c)(1 )(ii). 
February 9, 2005 
AGRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
32 

Section 4 -TLAA -  Pressurized 
Thermal Shock (PTS) 
Section 4.2 -  Reactor Vessel Neutron Emtbrittlement
 
Limiting Material
 
for 
PTS
 
Intermediate/lower
 
shell circumferential
 
weld (Unit 
1)
 
Intermediate shell
 
plate (Unit 
2)
 
Screening
 
Criterion
 
300 
OF
 
270 
of
 
Calculated 
RTPTS
 
values
 
48 EFPY
 
283 
OF
 
227 
of
 
Conclusion 
Screening
 
Criterion is  met
 
Screening
 
Criterion is met
 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
33 

Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.3 -  Metal Fatigue 
•  Class 1 Fatigue 
•  Cumulative usage factor (CUF) not toe~ceed 1.0 
•  Commitment to further actions for the auxiliary spray line 
•  Non-Class 1 Fatigue 
•   Analyses remain valid for period of extended operation 
•  EnvironmentaUy-Assisted Fatigue 
•  Comimitment to further actions for the pressurizer su,rg:8 line, 
residual heat removal (RHR) piping, and charging and safety 
injection nozzles 
•  Confirmatory Item: Update updated final safety analysis 
report (UFSAR) supplement to include comm:itments 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­

Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2
 
34 

,,:,::;:':::";~;j. 
Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.4 -  Environmental Qual'lfication
 
•  Applicant has adequately identified the TLAA for EO 
com,ponents. 
Applicant's EO Program is consistent with G:ALL
 
X.E1 .
 
•  Staff concluded EO Program will continue to manage 
equipment in accordance with 10 CFR 5:0.49, and 
meets 10 CFR 54.21 (c)(1) (iii). 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
35 

Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.5 -  Concrete Containment 
Tendon Prestress 
•  The reinforced concrete containments at D. C. 
Cook do not use prestres<sedtendons. 
•  
No TLAA analysis 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
36 

Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.6 -  Containment Liner Plate and 
Penetrations 
•  Actions and commitments satisfy require'ments of 
10 
CFR 54.21 (c)(1 )(i). 
•  Commitment to perform ad'ditional evaluations of 
the containment penetrations. 
•  Confirmatory Item:  Updating 
UFSAR 
Supplement to capture commitment to analyze 
the containment penetrations. 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee M~eting ­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
37 

Section 4 -TLAA
 
Section 4.7 -Other Plant-Specific TLAAs
 
•   RCS Piping Leak Before Brea.,k 
•  ASME Code Case N-481 
•   Ice Condenser Lattice Frame 
•   Reactor Vessel Underclad Cracking 
•   Steam Generator Tube Flow-I'nduced Vibration
 
•   Fatigue Analysis of Cranes 
•   Reactor Coolant Pump Flywheels 
February 9, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant. Units 1 and 2 
38 

Section 4 -TLAA (Plant-Specific)
 
Section 4.7.3 -  Ice Condenser Lattice 
Frame 
II Analysis based on 400 operational bas.is 
earthquakes (OBEs) 
•  Based 
on past operating experience, aBE 
limit will not be surpassed during perio"d of 
extended operation. 
II Fatigue analysis remains varid in ac'cordance 
with 
10 CFR 54.21 (c)(1 )(i) 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
39 

TLAA Summary
 
•  The applicant has identified the appropriate 
TLAAs and ha,s demonstrated th,at: 
•  the TLAAs will remain valid for the period of
 
extended operation - 10 CFR5;4.21 
(c)(1 )(i),
 
•  the TLAAs have been proJected to the end of the 
period 
of extended operation - 10 CFR 
54.21 (c)(1)(ii), 
•  the aging effects will 
be adequately managed for 
the period of extended operation - 10 CFR 
54.21 (c)(1)(iii). 
February 9,2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald 
C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
40 

Staff Conclusions
 
II Actions have been identified and have 
been or will be taken such that there is 
·;;;';L;;;!:c,;;ii 
reasonable assurance that activities will 
continue to be conducted in the ren'ewal 
term in accordan'c'e with thee current 
licensing basis. 
II The Applicant has met the requirements 
for license renewal, as required by 
10 CFR 54.29(a). 
February g, 2005 
ACRS Subcommittee Meeting ­
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2 
41