[PDF Metadata]
Author: Jurek, Shane M.
Pages: 62

[Content]
414 Nicollet Mall 
Minneapolis, MN 55401 
 
800.895.4999 
xcelenergy.com 
 
 
 
 
January 14, 2019 L- XE-19-0  01 
 10 CFR 50.54(q)(5) 
10 CFR 72.44(f) 
 
ATTN: Document Control Desk 
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
Washington, DC 20555-0001    
 
Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant, Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant 
Units 1 and 2 Dockets 50-263  and 72-58 
Dockets 50-282 and 50-306 Renewed Facility Operating License 
Renewed Facility Operating License Nos.  No. DPR-22 
DPR-42 and DPR-60 
 
Prairie Island Independent Spent Fuel  
Storage Installation 
Docket 72-10 
Materials License No. SNM-2506 
 
 
Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan Revision 
 
As required by 10 CFR 50.54(q)(5) and 10 CFR 72.44(f), Northern States Power Company, a 
Minnesota corporation (NSPM), d/b/a Xcel Energy, hereby submits the enclosed summary of a 
completed 10 CFR 50.54(q) change evaluation for a revision to the corporate Offsite Nuclear 
Emergency Plan (Enclosure 1). In addition, the revision to the corporate Offsite Nuclear 
Emergency Plan is enclosed (Enclosure 2). This revision has been reviewed and does not 
result in a reduction in the effectiveness of the Emergency Plan. 
  

Document Control Desk 
Page 2 
Summary 
of Commitments 
This letter makes no new commitments and no revisions to existing commitments. 
!:ii~5/tto 
Director, Nuclear Licensing and Regulatory Services 
Northern States Power Company - Minnesota 
Enclosures (2) 
cc: Director, Division of Spent Fuel Storage and Transportation, NMSS 
Administrator, USNRC, Region Ill 
Project Manager, Monticello and Prairie Island, USNRC 
Resident Inspector, Monticello, USNRC 
Resident Inspector, Prairie Island, USNRC 

 
 
 
 
ENCLOSURE 1 
 
FP-EP-  PLAN-01,   Revision 8, Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan Change Summary Analysis 
10 CFR 50.54(q)(5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 pages follow

 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Change (#) Change 1 
Description: 
This change is a technological upgrade to the existing conference call mass notification 
system. The upgrade is to switch to the Everbridge conference call mass notification system 
from the Mission Mode conference call mass notification system having features like for like or 
enhanced capabilities. 
Doc ID or (Procedure Number) / Revision Number:     FP-EP-PLAN-01            /8 
Document Title:   Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan 
Evaluation Determination: 
This change does not impact the timeliness or availability of the offsite ERO staff. Everbridge 
provides a like for like functionality, there is no impact to the overall timeliness, accuracy, or 
reliability of the conference call mass notification system established by Everbridge.  
 
The changes do not result in a reduction in effectiveness. 
 
 
 

 
Page 2 of 2 
Change (#) Change 2 
Description: 
This is an editorial title change from "Mission Mode Calls" to "conference calls using the mass 
notification application". 
 
 
 
Doc ID or (Procedure Number) / Revision Number:     FP-EP-PLAN-01            /8 
Document Title: Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan 
Evaluation Determination: 
This is an editorial change to generalize an application/system title. The changes do not result 
in  a reduction in effectiveness. 

 
 
 
 
ENCLOSURE 2 
 
Revision to FP-EP-  PLAN-01,   Revision 8, Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56   pages follow 

 
Nuclear Department Fleet Procedure 
FP-EP-PLAN-01    Revision:    8 
Page 1 of 56 
Title:  
Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Approval: 
 
602000007018 
 
  
 
 
 
 
INFORMATION USE 
 Procedure should be available, but not necessarily at the work 
location. 
 Procedure may be performed from memory. 
 User remains responsible for procedure adherence. 
 
 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 2 of 56 
 
 
Table of Contents 
Page 
1.0 PURPOSE ....................................................................................................................... 3 
2.0 APPLICABILITY ............................................................................................................. 4 
3.0 RESPONSIBILITIES ....................................................................................................... 4 
4.0 DEFINITIONS .................................................................................................................. 8 
5.0 REQUIREMENTS ......................................................................................................... 11 
6.0 RECORDS .................................................................................................................... 31 
7.0 REFERENCES .............................................................................................................. 32 
7.1 SOURCE DOCUMENTS ...................................................................................... 32 
7.2 REFERENCE DOCUMENTS ............................................................................... 32 
7.3 COMMITMENTS .................................................................................................. 32 
ATTA
CHMENT 1 MONTICELLO AND PRAIRIE ISLAND OFFSITE EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE ORGANIZATION ...................................................................................... 33 
ATTACHMENT 2 BACKUP EOF EQUIPMENT ........................................................................ 34 
ATTACHMENT 3 MONTICELLO .............................................................................................. 36 
ATTACHMENT 4 PRAIRIE ISLAND ......................................................................................... 37 
ATTACHMENT 5 LETTERS OF AGREEMENT ........................................................................ 38 
ATTACHMENT 6 RADIATION ENVIRONMENT MONITORING PLAN .................................... 39 
ATTACHMENT 7 MONTICELLO AND PRAIRIE ISLAND CONSERVATIVE 
GUIDANCE FOR PROTECTIVE ACTION AND RECOMMENDATION ......................... 40 
ATTACHMENT 8 EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES – PRAIRIE ISLAND ............................... 41 
ATTACHMENT 9 EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES - MONTICELLO ..................................... 42 
ATTACHMENT 10 OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE 
INDEX  .......................................................................................................................... 43 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 3 of 56 
 
 
1.0   PURPOSE 
1.1 In accordance with license conditions, 10 CFR part 50 and Nuclear Regulatory 
Commissioned (NRC) regulatory guidance, the Northern States Power Company, a 
Minnesota Corporation (NSPM) d/b/a Xcel Energy has developed and implemented 
emergency response plans for both of its operating nuclear power sites' and off-site 
response organizations. These combined plans constitute Monticello and Prairie 
Island’s Emergency Response Plan. NSPM is a subsidiary of Xcel Energy Corporation 
and operates Monticello and Prairie Island Nuclear Power Sites. As asset owner Xcel 
Energy retains all owner obligations. 
1.2 In support of the planning effort at these fixed nuclear facilities, supplemental 
emergency response plans have been developed by organizations outside of and 
within the NSPM/Xcel Energy. These include response plans developed by the States 
of Minnesota, Wisconsin (a state contiguous to NSPM/Xcel Energy Prairie Island site) 
and Prairie Island Indian Community. Response plans have also been developed by 
counties (in both states) which are within the emergency planning zones at either 
Monticello or Prairie Island Nuclear Generating plants. Response arrangements have 
been developed with various service oriented organizations in support of both sites.  
These include such entities as hospitals, ambulance services, federal radiological 
emergency response teams, contractor laboratories, vendors and consultants. These 
arrangements are documented in a list of "letters of agreement" attached in Attachment 
5 to this plan.  
NSPM/Xcel Energy Chief Nuclear Officer is ultimately responsible for ensuring a well 
prepared and adequately staffed Emergency Response Organization (ERO) is in place 
for both the On-site and Off-site organizations. NSPM/Xcel Energy’s Chief Nuclear 
Officer ensures this by requiring strict compliance to the Emergency Plans. This plan 
can be implemented in response to emergencies at either Monticello or Prairie Island 
nuclear facilities.  It coordinates the resources of the NSPM/Xcel Energy and other 
supporting departments.  The emergency response planning effort consists of three 
phases:  
1.   The Response 
2.   Offsite Assistance 
3.   The Recovery 
The Response Phase is that period of time immediately following the classification of 
an emergency condition.  Responses during this phase are those actions which are 
taken by site personnel to reduce consequences of the emergency condition. Each site 
plan directs actions during this period and is designed to interface with other response 
plans if it becomes necessary to utilize outside assistance. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 4 of 56 
 
 
The Offsite Assistance Phase commences when organizations other than the affected 
sites are used to assist the site in response to the emergency. The response effort 
described in this Plan is designed for the Offsite Assistance Phase. The Monticello and 
Prairie Island Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan organizes the total resources of the 
NSPM/Xcel Energy to facilitate support of the affected site. Activation of the Monticello 
and Prairie Island Offsite Response Organization (ORO) including state, federal, and 
local governmental response organizations are associated with this phase. 
The Recovery Phase commences when the Emergency Director, Emergency Manager, 
Plant Manager, and the Recovery Manager agree that all Emergency Organization 
activities in progress can be safely transferred to the Recovery Organization, and a 
punch list of short-term and long-term projects have been identified and prioritized, and 
consultation has occurred with the NRC. The methodology for the transition to the 
Recovery Phase is specified in the site Emergency Plan Implementing Procedures.   
2.0   APPLICABILITY 
2.1 This plan can be implemented in response to an emergency at either Monticello or 
Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plants.  
3.0   RESPONSIBILITIES 
Monticello and Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plants will activate their respective 
emergency organization independent of offsite assistance. The site staff is responsible 
for taking the immediate actions to mitigate the emergency and limit the adverse 
effects. The time taken to completely activate the Monticello or Prairie Island 
Emergency Response Organization will not adversely affect the site's response to the 
emergency condition.  
The Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Emergency Response Organization is shown 
in  Attachment 1. Methods are established in procedures to ensure that the necessary 
personnel are available to staff required positions or that alternates are specified.  
The following is a description of key members of the Monticello and Prairie Island 
Offsite Emergency Response Organization. The site emergency organizations are 
described in the site plans. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 5 of 56 
 
 
3.1 Responsibilities of NSPM/Xcel Energy’s Offsite Emergency Response 
Organization Positions 
3.1.1 Xcel Energy Communications 
This group is represented by the Xcel Energy Communications staff. Staffing of these 
positions is ensured by use of a call list of qualified designees. The Director of 
Communications is responsible for the management of NSPM/Xcel Energy public 
information efforts and to advise NSPM/Xcel Energy Executive Management on public 
affairs. The responsibilities and authorities are listed below: 
   Provide a media representative for communication with the various media 
personnel. 
   Ensure that requests for public information by NSPM/Xcel Energy Executive 
Management are acted upon.  
   Coordinate the efforts of ERO communications personnel at corporate offices and 
at the state EOC/JIC. 
   Ensure that there is a timely exchange of information among spokespersons for the 
responding agencies and that there are coordinated arrangements for dealing with 
rumors.   
   Ensure that requests for communications resources are acted upon in a timely 
fashion. 
   Ensure information flow to appropriate federal, state and local government officials 
not directly involved in the emergency response effort. 
   If requested by the Emergency Manager, consider dispatching a Communications 
Representative to the site to support local Media related issues.   
3.1.2 Executive Spokesperson 
The Executive Spokesperson with the assistance of Technical Resource personnel will 
be responsible for directing the efforts of NSPM/Xcel Energy personnel at the State 
EOC and the Joint Information Center.  Additionally, this individual will be the 
designated NSPM/Xcel Energy Spokesperson in attendance for media conferences. 
The individual designated to fill this position will have the following responsibilities: 
   Serve as the NSPM/Xcel Energy spokesperson for major media meetings and 
conferences held at the Minnesota state EOC/JIC. 
   Supply information to ERO communications personnel who develop media releases 
at the state EOC/JIC. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 6 of 56 
 
 
   Represent NSPM/Xcel Energy at the state EOC/JIC by interfacing with state 
officials. 
   Ensure adequate liaison occurs between NSPM/Xcel Energy representatives and 
state and county management. 
   Serve on the JIC Management Committee. 
   Establish 24-hour shift coverage for JIC Staff. 
3.1.3 Technical Resource Staff 
The individuals designated to fill this position will have the following responsibilities: 
1.   Assist the Executive Spokesperson in supplying information to the ERO 
communications personnel located at the JIC/EOC. 
2.   Act as the Executive Spokesperson in his or her absence. 
3.   As an NSPM/Xcel Energy technical representative, assist other personnel at the 
JIC/EOC. 
3.1.4 State Liaison 
The State Liaison works for the Executive Spokesperson and is at the Executive 
Spokespersons disposal to provide Liaison between NSPM/Xcel Energy and the State 
Agencies. 
The State Liaison will have the following responsibilities: 
1.   Provide an interface between NSPM/Xcel Energy and various state agencies of 
both Minnesota and Wisconsin. 
2.   Assist the state in understanding NSPM/Xcel Energy’s response efforts to the 
emergency situation. 
3.   Facilitate the answering of any questions the state has concerning NSPM/Xcel 
Energy's response efforts. 
4.   Ensure that information being provided to the state accurately reflects the actual 
emergency situation. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 7 of 56 
 
 
5.   Ensure that information originating from the state accurately reflects the actual 
emergency situation. 
3.1.5 Emergency Planning County Liaisons 
The County Liaisons work with the State EP Liaison and assist that person by 
providing Liaison between NSPM/Xcel Energy and the County Agencies. 
The County Liaison Representatives will have the following responsibilities: 
1.   Keep the State EP Liaison informed of issues brought up by County EOC staff 
and the media at County PIO briefings. 
2.   Provide assistance to the County EOC Operations Chief as requested. 
3.   Attend County press briefings as time permits. 
4.   Keep informed of activities in progress at the County EOC. 
5.   If requested by County EOC Operations Chief, contact State EP Liaison to 
resolve rumors and/or validate information concerning site status.   
6.   Assist Sheriff's Office representative in becoming aware of site shift change 
times, clearance of NSPM/Xcel Energy staff through roadblocks, or with other 
requests.  
3.1.6 Security Advisor at the State Emergency Operations Center 
The Security Advisor works with the Executive Spokesperson when security issues are 
concerns in the event. 
The individual assigned to fill this position will have the following responsibilities: 
1.   Provide the Executive Spokesperson with pertinent security information. 
2.   Act as NSPM/Xcel Energy’s security liaison with the State of Minnesota. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 8 of 56 
 
 
4.0   DEFINITIONS 
4.1 Annually 
Annually is defined as one calendar year (January – December).   
4.2 Monthly 
Monthly is defined as one month ± 1 week.   
4.3 Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan 
Provides supplementary direction and guidance for the NSPM/Xcel Energy Monticello 
and Prairie Island Emergency Response Organization including Site emergency plans 
and implementing procedures. 
4.4 Recovery Phase 
The recovery phase should occur only after at least one fission product barrier is in 
place, the site is not making any radioactive releases to the environs greater than 
technical specification limits, and the site is stable, with very little potential for future 
degradation. 
4.5 Plant Management 
The affected site's Vice President and their direct reports. 
4.6 Corporate Management 
Those members of NSPM/Xcel Energy management below the Vice President level.  
4.7 Executive Management 
Those members of NSPM/Xcel Energy management at the Vice President level and 
above.   
4.8 Corporate NSPM/XCEL ENERGY Offices 
The administrative offices of NSPM/Xcel Energy located at Xcel Energy's General 
Office, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 9 of 56 
 
 
4.9 Nuclear Emergency Preparedness Group 
The NSPM/Xcel Energy group that is responsible for overall emergency preparedness 
including the interfacing with the governmental entities involved in emergency planning.  
Other NSPM/ Xcel Energy departments have emergency preparedness responsibilities 
as specified by this Plan or its Implementing Procedures. 
4.10 Communications Department 
Xcel Energy communications staff are responsible for providing public information.  
4.11 Offsite Officials 
Those elected or appointed officials responsible for Federal (e.g., NRC, FEMA), State, 
and local government functions.   
4.12 Emergency Director 
The affected site's Plant Manager or his designee. This individual has responsibility for 
managing the onsite emergency organization and initial efforts external to the site until 
the near site EOF Emergency Response Organization is activated and the Emergency 
Manager assumes control. 
4.13 Emergency Manager 
The Emergency Manager has the authority and responsibility for the Management of 
NSPM/Xcel Energy response to an emergency. This individual will assume control at 
the Emergency Operations Facility (EOF) or Backup EOF and direct the NSPM/Xcel 
Energy response efforts. 
4.14 Recovery Manager 
This person is responsible for the implementation of the Recovery Phase.  This 
individual will perform tasks as directed by the Emergency Manager, but will primarily 
be responsible for establishing the Recovery Organization and preparing for the long 
term recovery effort. 
4.15 Advisory / Technical Support Group 
This group is made up of selected personnel.  They will provide a pool of personnel 
who are familiar with NSPM/Xcel Energy’s Monticello or Prairie Island facilities, Off-site 
procedures, and available resources. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 10 of 56 
 
 
4.16 Sister Site 
The sister site is the unaffected NSPM/Xcel Energy nuclear site. The sister site to 
Monticello is Prairie Island, and the sister site to Prairie Island is Monticello.   
4.17 Near-Site Emergency Operations Facility (EOF) 
Once activated, the Near-site Emergency Operations Facility will serve as the affected 
Plant’s base for control of offsite emergency response activities.   
4.18 Technical Support Center (TSC) 
The onsite Technical Support Center provides a central area outside of the control 
room that functions as a command and control center for the coordinated onsite 
emergency response during emergency conditions. 
4.19 Operational Support Center (OSC) 
The Operational Support Center will provide a center to assemble the necessary 
Operators, Radiation Protection Specialists, Instrument Control, Electrical, and 
Maintenance personnel to support the operations of the site under emergency 
condition without causing undue congestion in the Control Room.   
4.20 State Emergency Operations Centers (SEOC) 
These are the command and control centers for the State(s) of Minnesota and 
Wisconsin.  Situation, evaluations and coordinated protective action recommendations 
will be maintained between county EOCs, the state EOCs, and the site EOF. 
4.21 County Emergency Operations Centers (local EOCs) 
These response centers provide command and control functions and are the central 
point of coordination for county and local emergency response organizations.   
4.22 Monticello and Prairie Island’s Off-Site EMERGENCY RESPONSE Organization. 
Those individuals assigned duties and responsibilities located at the JIC, and County 
and State EOCs.  This Organization is comprised of various NSPM/Xcel Energy 
personnel. 
4.23 Joint Information Center (JIC) 
A facility where designated spokespersons from federal, state, local, tribal and 
NSPM/Xcel Energy personnel will issue media releases.  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 11 of 56 
 
 
4.24 Emergency Response Organization Notification Systems (ERONS) 
An automated notification system that is used for ERO activation and augmentation. 
This system is initiated by the sites for a declared emergency and utilizes a variety of 
communication methods to contact the ERO. 
5.0   REQUIREMENTS 
5.1 Concept of Operations 
The emergency plans for the Monticello and Prairie Island fixed nuclear facilities are 
designed to be implemented independently of offsite support.  However, it is the 
purpose of the Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan to 
augment the Onsite Emergency Response Organization with additional resources as 
soon as possible. The Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan is 
designed to be implemented in an incremental manner, as site needs dictate. For 
emergency conditions that are classified as Unusual Events, the response will be 
limited to supplying offsite assistance in the areas of public information (Xcel Energy’s 
Communications Department) and liaison to state and local officials.  During an “Alert”, 
“Site Area Emergency”, or “General Emergency” NSPM/Xcel Energy Monticello and 
Prairie Island Offsite Emergency Response Organization will be activated.  This 
activation will be accomplished through use of the automated Emergency Response 
Organization Notification System (ERONS) which is initiated by the site.  
The individuals assigned to the Offsite Emergency Response Organization as well as 
their duties and responsibilities are identified in the Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite 
Nuclear Emergency Plan Implementing Procedures.   
The Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan coordinates the 
resources of several utility, NSPM/Xcel Energy departments and various outside 
agencies.  These organizations have each developed emergency planning documents 
to support their respective functions in the event of a nuclear incident at Monticello or 
Prairie Island nuclear sites. The Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Nuclear 
Emergency Plan is implemented depending on the severity and location of the incident, 
in conjunction with one or more of the following emergency plans: 
1.   Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant Emergency Plan.   
2.   Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant Emergency Plan.   
3.   State of Wisconsin Emergency Response Plan (applicable for PI Site only)   
4.   Pierce County Emergency Operations Plan (applicable for PI Site only).  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 12 of 56 
 
 
5.   State of Minnesota Emergency Operations Plan. 
6.   State of Minnesota Local Government Emergency Response Plans for Nuclear 
Generating Plants. 
   City of Red Wing/Goodhue County Emergency Response Plan for the Prairie 
Island Nuclear Generating Plant.   
   Dakota County Emergency Response Plan for an Incident at the Prairie Island 
Nuclear Generating Plant.   
   Wright County Emergency Response Plan for the Monticello Nuclear 
Generating Plant.   
   Sherburne County Emergency Response Plan for the Monticello Nuclear 
Generating Plant. 
7.   Prairie Island Indian Community (applicable for PI Site only). 
Additionally, "Letters of Agreement" have been obtained from various other offsite 
agencies and corporations.  These letters specify pre-existing arrangements to support 
NSPM/Xcel Energy or state and local government actions during an emergency 
condition. A list of these letters is provided in Attachment 5 of this Plan.  
5.2 Emergency Classification System  
At the Monticello and Prairie Island Nuclear Generating facilities, emergencies are 
classified into one of four categories. Each succeeding category increases in level of 
severity and requires an increased amount of participation by onsite and offsite 
personnel. For each emergency category, key personnel within NSPM/Xcel, Federal, 
State, Tribal and local organizations will be notified.  They will, in turn, activate their 
respective emergency organizations according to their individual plans based on the 
conditions of the emergency. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 13 of 56 
 
 
Each classification provides a known boundary concerning the severity of the 
emergency condition. All NSPM/Xcel, Federal, State and local organizations accept 
this classification system and recognize the bounds of severity of the categories. 
Associated with this classification system are recommended guidelines for protective 
actions to be implemented by State and local offsite authorities.  Various events could 
initially be classified in one category and later be reclassified, as better defined and 
more complete information becomes available. The emergency classification system is 
constructed to provide a smooth transition between categories. The mechanism to 
classify any single event or group of events or conditions into one of the above 
categories is contained in the respective Site Emergency Plan Implementing 
Procedures. In general, the individual who is functioning as the Emergency Director is 
responsible to classify all emergency conditions.  In certain situations it is possible that 
the offsite organization may have data which would confirm an emergency 
classification or precipitate a reclassification. In order to preclude erroneous 
reclassification, after the EOF Emergency Response Organization is fully activated and 
has assumed responsibility for offsite activities, all changes in classification must have 
the concurrence of the Emergency Manager. 
Monticello and Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant Emergency Plan Implementing 
Procedures contain specific parameter values and equipment status for each 
emergency class as a convenient cross reference. 
5.2.1 Classification System  
Emergency situations are classified according to severity, taking into consideration 
potential as well as actual events in process.  The four classifications are as follows: 
1.   Notification of Unusual Event (Unusual Event) 
2.   Alert 
3.   Site Area Emergency 
4.   General Emergency 
Methodologies for Classification of Emergencies are found in the Site Emergency 
Plans. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 14 of 56 
 
 
5.3 Facilities and Equipment 
5.3.1 Description of NSPM/Xcel Energy’s Offsite Facilities 
1.   Backup Emergency Operations Facility (BUEOF) 
This facility is approximately 1400 sq. ft. in area and is located in conjunction with 
Xcel Energy’s general offices in Minneapolis. The primary purpose of this facility 
is to serve as the Backup EOF in the event that the near site EOF becomes 
uninhabitable or security issues exist. 
2.   Near-site Emergency Operations Facility (EOF) 
The Emergency Operations Facility is activated during "Alert", "Site Area 
Emergency" and "General Emergency" conditions.  The purpose of the EOF is to 
provide a command and control center for the utilities offsite emergency activities 
concerned with identifying and limiting the consequences of the emergency 
conditions.  The EOF is located in the Plant Training Center which also contains 
administrative offices for the Training Department and the plant simulator.  
For Monticello, the EOF is located approximately 1 mile south-southeast of the 
plant within the city of Monticello. For Prairie Island, the EOF is located 
approximately 1/2 mile west of the plant.  
A more detailed description of the EOF facilities are contained in the Monticello 
and Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant Emergency Plans. 
5.3.2 On-Site Plant Emergency Centers 
There are two emergency centers at each plant, the onsite Technical Support Center 
and the onsite Operational Support Center.  Alternative Response Facilities have been 
designated when ERO response to the onsite centers is not appropriate due to the 
nature of the site event. Detailed descriptions of these centers are included in the 
specific site plans. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 15 of 56 
 
 
5.3.3 Governmental Facilities 
1.   Minnesota State Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 
The State EOC is the command and control center for the state. Coordination will 
be maintained between County EOCs and the State EOC for situation evaluation 
and protective actions. Federal agencies assigned responsibilities in the event of 
a nuclear power plant accident, regardless of location, will maintain coordination 
with the State EOC.  State agencies assigned responsibilities for emergency 
functions will provide required personnel at the State EOC. In most instances, 
when the state EOC is activated a licensee Executive Spokesperson will be in 
attendance. The Executive Spokesperson will have an office at the EOC equipped 
with communication channels (voice & telecopy) to interface with key licensee 
facilities including the EOF.   
2.   Wisconsin State Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 
For emergencies at Prairie Island, the Wisconsin EOC in Madison will be 
activated and will serve as a command and control center for Wisconsin response 
activities. The Wisconsin EOC in Madison will coordinate communications with 
the Pierce County (Wisc) EOC in Ellsworth and the Joint Information Center (JIC) 
in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
3.   County Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) 
The county EOCs are command and control centers for the local emergency 
response organizations. They are located in the following buildings:  
   Goodhue County Law Enforcement Building.   
   Dakota County Government Center. 
   Pierce County Emergency Management Office in the Ellsworth Courthouse 
Annex. 
   Wright County Courthouse. 
   Sherburne County Government Building.   
The County EOC receives primary direction from the State EOC and coordinates 
the local emergency response activities. The agencies assigned responsibilities in 
the county emergency response organization will provide the required personnel 
to the county EOCs.  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 16 of 56 
 
 
4.   Joint Information Center (JIC) 
The State of Minnesota has established a JIC, which will be activated jointly with 
the State EOC. The JIC is located in the Saint Paul-Minneapolis area and the 
major Minnesota news media are also headquartered in this area. The State of 
Wisconsin officials are aware of this arrangement and are prepared to send 
representatives.  
5.3.4 Communication Links 
The equipment in each site Emergency Response Facility is specified in their 
Emergency Plans. The equipment in the Backup EOF is described in Attachment 2. 
5.4 Emergency Response 
Emergency response activities performed through the Monticello and Prairie Island 
Offsite Emergency Response Organization are predicated on the fact that each site is 
able to operate independently for several hours during an emergency. Since the Offsite 
Emergency Response Organization can be activated within approximately 2 hours, 
adequate support is available, should the site require it.  
5.4.1 Activation 
1.    Activation/Site 
The Shift Manager/Emergency Director is responsible for activating the site 
Emergency Response Organization in accordance with site Emergency Plan 
Implementing Procedures.  A detailed description of the site activation process is 
contained in the applicable Site Emergency Plan. 
2.  Activation/Offsite 
The NSPM/Xcel Energy Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite Emergency 
Response Organization can be activated within about 2 hours of notification. The 
Site Plan Implementing Procedures provide for the notification of the Offsite 
Emergency Response Organization (ERO). The automated Emergency Response 
Organization Notification System (ERONS) will notify the Offsite ERO in the event 
of a declared emergency in accordance with the Offsite Emergency Plan 
Implementing Procedure. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 17 of 56 
 
 
5.4.2 Planned Response Action 
1.  Response/Site 
The Site Emergency Response Organization is activated immediately after the 
Shift Manager declares an emergency condition as described in site plans.  At this 
declaration, the Shift Manager becomes the Emergency Director until he is 
formally relieved of that responsibility according to the site Emergency Plan 
Implemen
ting Procedures. As Emergency Director, several emergency response 
actions are pre-planned in the site plan and procedures. These actions include 
steps that initiate the activation process for the site Emergency Response 
Organization. 
2.    Response/ Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite 
The Xcel Energy Security Operations Center (SOC) is continuously manned at 
Xcel Energy’s General Office.  When notified of an emergency condition, the SOC 
will initiate the conference call mass notification application(s) to establish a 
management conference call. 
As part of the site’s ERONS, offsite ERO are also notified who will respond to 
their assigned ERF and initiate Offsite Emergency Plan Implementing 
Procedures. The notified personnel have assigned duties that, when 
implemented, provide for an operational group of personnel at the JIC. 
3.    Response/Vendor/Consultant 
There are two primary vendors that are involved with emergency response 
planning for Monticello and Prairie Island Sites. They are: General Electric Co. 
(GE) for Monticello and Westinghouse (W) for Prairie Island. At the request of the 
Emergency Manager, these companies will provide assistance.  
The response actions which may be requested involve the following: 
   Personnel 
   Technical analysis 
   Operational analysis 
   Accident/transient analysis 
Other vendors or consultants will be requested to provide assistance as needed. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 18 of 56 
 
 
4.    Assistance from Other Utilities 
Under an emergency, it may be desirable to call on the resources (personnel and 
equipment) of other nuclear utilities, outside of NSPM/Xcel Energy. Such a 
request may be made by the sites using the INPO Emergency Resource Manual.  
5.    Response/Support and Resources 
The Minnesota Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
(HSEM) and the Wisconsin Emergency Management (WEM) are the state 
agencies which are responsible for the overall direction of the state emergency 
response efforts. The HSEM and WEM will activate their Emergency Operation 
Centers and deploy their personnel and resources, in accordance with the State 
of Minnesota Emergency Operations Plan, and the Wisconsin Emergency 
Response Plan respectively. These plans include written messages intended for 
the public which are consistent with the emergency classification scheme and 
give the public instruction regarding suitable protective action. The Public 
Emergency Planning Education Program (described in Section 5.5) will familiarize 
the public in the proper response to these pre-planned messages.  
The Federal Department of Energy Radiological Assistance Program is available 
for monitoring assistance and radiological advice to the Minnesota Department of 
Health (MDH), Section of Radiation Control, and the Wisconsin Department of 
Health Services (DHS), section of Radiation Protection.   
The Department of Energy (DOE) is the coordinating agency for the Federal 
Emergency Response Plan (FERP). Regional Coordinating offices are assigned 
geographic responsibilities for incidents in their region. Their objective is to rapidly 
dispatch specialists to the incident site, evaluate the hazard, take recommended 
action to counteract and control any acute hazard, and establish communications 
with local authorities and the press. The Regional Coordinating Offices will 
respond to requests for radiological assistance from the NSPM/Xcel Energy, 
federal, state, and local agencies, and would implement the FERP. The 
Emergency Manager will, if necessary, coordinate with the Health Department(s) 
any request for DOE assistance. Federal assistance teams will be supplied 
operating quarters, support, and resources by the State EOC(s).  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 19 of 56 
 
 
5.5 Public Information 
5.5.1 Public Emergency Planning Education 
NSPM/Xcel Energy, in coordination with state, county and local officials, annually 
provides the general public (including transients) with information concerning the 
methods of public notification and what individual actions should be taken during an 
emergency. This information may include:   
   methods of public notification 
   possible protective actions 
   general information as to the nature and effects of radiation 
   contact points for additional information 
   special needs for the handicapped 
   registration cards for the mobility impaired. 
Methods for disseminating the information may include calendars, brochures, annual 
publications, public postings and/or meetings. Dissemination of information to the 
public is coordinated with state and local agencies. 
5.5.2 Media Information 
The Xcel Energy Communications Department has communications procedures to 
ensure prompt communications between Xcel Energy or NSPM and principal media 
organizations.  
At least once a year, both states will conduct training programs or send mailings to 
acquaint the news media with the emergency plans and to provide information 
concerning radiation and points of contact for release of public information in an 
emergency. NSPM/Xcel Energy has input to this process. 
NSPM/Xcel Energy have established procedures for informing the news media when a 
nuclear power plant is removed from service and delineate additional responsibilities 
during a serious nuclear accident. Primary responsibility for implementation of the 
program rests with the Xcel Energy Communications Department after notification by 
the site. Release of information to the news media and the scheduling of news 
conferences SHALL have the review and concurrence of the Executive Spokesperson.  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 20 of 56 
 
 
5.5.3 NSPM/Xcel Energy And Xcel Energy Employee Information 
It is desirable that NSPM/Xcel Energy employees be aware of the current status during 
an emergency. This ensures employees do not inadvertently start rumors.  Methods of 
employee communication are delineated in the Communications Program and may 
consist of the following:   
   Electronic mail  
   Public address announcements  
   Daily news services - print and phone 
   Employee meetings 
5.6 Emergency Organization Interfaces 
The purpose of this section is to specify communications interfaces between the 
Emergency Response Organization and various organizational entities within and 
outside of NSPM/Xcel Energy. 
After notification of an emergency condition is made to offsite officials, the state, and 
applicable county emergency operations centers, the associated response teams will 
be activated, in accordance with the appropriate State Emergency Plans. Designated 
NSPM/Xcel Energy personnel will make periodic status reports of site conditions to 
offsite officials.  Meteorological data, survey results, projected doses and protective 
action recommendations will be provided to offsite officials. 
The final decision concerning what protective actions will be implemented on behalf of 
the public rests with the Governor of each State. Designated Utility officials will make 
recommendations (see site plans) but the State of Minnesota (and/or Wisconsin & 
Prairie Island Indian Community) is responsible for issuing protective actions decisions 
(PADs). If necessary for a fast developing incident, the States’ Plan provides for the 
contingency that the site may recommend immediate protective actions to offsite 
officials. 
5.7 Recovery Phase 
The process of Recovery Phase is defined in the specific site plans. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 21 of 56 
 
 
5.8 Exercises, Drills and Training 
5.8.1 Exercises 
Periodic exercises and drills are conducted to evaluate major portions of emergency 
response capabilities, maintain capabilities and identify deficiencies that form the basis 
for corrective action. These exercises serve to develop and maintain key skills in the 
course of emergency response.   
An exercise is a real-time simulated event that tests the integrated capability of the 
ERO and a major portion of the five basic elements existing within emergency 
preparedness plans. The emergency preparedness exercise simulates an emergency 
that results in potential offsite radiological releases which would require response by 
offsite authorities.   
The five basic elements are: 
1.   Initial Response Activities  
   Identify and classify emergency 
   Notify and communicate conditions 
   Activate organizations and facilities 
   Control facility access 
2.   Emergency Response Activities 
   Assess accidents 
   Mitigate accidents 
   Recommend protective actions 
3.   Radiological Response Activities 
   Sample/analyze plant air/liquids 
   Monitor onsite radiological conditions 
   Control emergency radiation exposure 
   Monitor offsite radiological conditions 
4.   Assembly and Accountability Activities 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 22 of 56 
 
 
5.   Offsite Interface Activities 
The specifics of conducting Emergency Preparedness drills or exercises are found in 
Emergency Preparedness Drill and Exercise Manual. When integrated exercises are 
conducted, the scope will be expanded to also include appropriate State and local 
government agencies as well as the JIC. Each site SHALL exercise with offsite 
authorities such that the State and local government emergency plans for each 
operating reactor site are exercised at least biennially, with full
1
 or partial participation
2
 
by State(s) and local governments, within the plume exposure pathway EPZ. The level 
of participation SHALL be as follows: 
   At a minimum, each State, within an Ingestion Pathway Zone (IPZ), SHALL 
exercise its plans and preparedness related to ingestion exposure pathway 
measures at least once every 8 years. The States of Minnesota and Wisconsin 
should rotate this participation from between Monticello and Prairie Island sites.  
Local governments having ingestion pathway responsibilities should also 
participate.  At a minimum, local entities should, during the year the full participation 
ingestion exercise is held, review their plans and procedures to verify their 
accuracy and completeness. 
   The Utility should enable any State or local governments, located within the plume 
exposure pathway EPZ, to participate in annual full scale exercises when 
requested by such State or local government. 
The need for a remedial exercise under 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix E, Section IV.F.2.f 
will be determined on a case-by-case basis when any of the following conditions 
associated with a biennial exercise occurs:  
   Confidentiality is compromised to an extent that broadly affects ERO performance  
   The scenario does not provide the opportunity for demonstration of key skills; the 
scenario is not implemented in such a way that provides the opportunity for 
demonstration of key skills. 
                                                
 
1
 “Full participation” when used in conjunction with emergency preparedness exercises for  
  a particular site means appropriate offsite local and state authorities and licensee  
  personnel physically and actively take part in testing their integrated capability to   
  adequately assess and responded to an accident at a commercial nuclear power plant.  
  “Full participation” includes testing the major observable portions of the onsite and offsite  
  emergency plans and mobilization of state, local and licensee personnel and other  
  resources in sufficient numbers to verify the capability to respond to the accident   
  scenario. 10 CFR Part 50 Appendixes E, Footnote #4.  
  
 
2
 “Partial Participation” when used in conjunction with emergency preparedness exercises  
  for a particular site means appropriate offsite authorities SHALL actively take part in the  
  exercise sufficient to test direction and control functions, i.e., (a) protective action  
  decision making related to emergency action levels, and (b) communication capabilities  
  among affected state and local authorities and the licensee. 10 CFR Part 50 Appendix  
  E, Footnote #5   

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 23 of 56 
 
 
   ERO performance does not provide the NRC with a basis to determine that key 
skills have been maintained. 
   The extent of participation in a remedial exercise will also be determined on a case-
by-case basis since only portions of the response may need to be re-demonstrated. 
NSPM/Xcel Energy participants in drills and exercises SHALL be assigned from the 
staff listings in the Nuclear Emergency Preparedness Telephone Directory.   
Controllers in drills and exercises should be trained in the Emergency Response 
Organization to which they are assigned duties. 
Official controllers from Federal, State or local governments will observe, evaluate, and 
critique the required exercises.  A critique SHALL be scheduled at the conclusion of the 
exercise to evaluate each organization's ability to respond as called for in the 
Emergency Plan.  The critique SHALL be conducted as soon as practicable after the 
exercise, and a formal evaluation should result from the critique.  
Controller and participant comments should be evaluated, and corrective actions will 
be established by management control to ensure that Emergency Plan or 
Implementing Procedures are changed as required. 
The exercise will be varied from year to year so as to test all major components of the 
plans and preparedness organizations, which may include federal emergency 
response agencies, within the applicable exercise cycle (8 years).  Provisions should 
be made to start a drill or exercise between 6:00pm and 4:00am at least once in every 
exercise cycle. Some drills or exercises should be unannounced. 
The details concerning scheduling, conduct and critique of drills and exercises are 
specified in site specific procedures. 
5.8.2 Drills 
A drill is a supervised instruction period aimed at testing, developing and maintaining 
skills in a particular operation.  A drill is often a component of an exercise.  Each drill is 
supervised and evaluated by a qualified drill coordinator.  The utility will conduct drills 
at intervals specified in site specific procedures and their respective Drill and Exercise 
Manual. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 24 of 56 
 
 
5.8.3 Training 
NSPM/Xcel Energy will assure that radiological emergency response training is 
provided to those who may be called upon to assist in an emergency. Training will also 
be provided for the person(s) designated as responsible for the planning effort. 
1.   Qualification of and training for the Monticello and Prairie Island Offsite 
Emergency Response Organization consists of initial overview training and 
position specific training. The training program for site and EOF ERO members is 
described in the site specific procedures. 
2.   Initial Overview Training 
Training SHALL introduce the EP personnel to the basis for nuclear power plant 
radiological emergency preparedness.  It should include: 
a.   Protective Action Recommendations 
b.   Emergency Action Levels and Classifications 
c.   Introduction to Emergency Plans of Monticello, Prairie Island and local 
Government 
d.   Emergency Response Organization and Communication 
e.   EP Objectives 
3.   Position specific training SHALL qualify the EP personnel in the position for which 
they have been nominated. It should include: 
a.   Detailed review of applicable procedures 
b.   Opportunity to practice the role of nominated position 
c.   Mini-drill or table top simulations/discussions 
The Utility will assist in the training of those offsite emergency organizations who may 
be called upon to provide assistance in the event of an emergency.  Each offsite 
response organization will participate in and receive training which will be coordinated 
by the appropriate governmental agencies. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 25 of 56 
 
 
Where mutual aid agreements exist between local agencies such as fire, police, 
ambulance/rescue, and other departments that are members of the mutual aid district, 
training will also be offered. 
Annual training for hospital personnel, ambulance/rescue and fire departments will 
include the procedures for notification, basic radiation protection and the appropriate 
Implementing Procedures.  For local services and support organizations who may 
enter the site, training will include orientation to site access procedures and to the 
onsite emergency organization that will control the support activities. 
All emergency organization members will be required to periodically participate in drills 
and exercises in which each person demonstrates the ability to perform his assigned 
tasks in an emergency situation. 
Personnel who implement radiological facets of the Emergency Response Plan will 
receive a training program to qualify them, per the Implementing Procedures that 
pertain to surveys, accident assessment, decontamination, and emergency mitigation. 
Training was presented initially when all plans and procedures were finalized, and 
re-training will be conducted annually in accordance with the Emergency Response 
Training Plans. Emergency response personnel will be trained for the following 
categories: 
1.   Directors or Coordinators of the Emergency Response Organizations 
2.   Accident assessment personnel 
3.    Radiological monitoring teams and radiological analysis personnel 
4.   Security and fire-fighting personnel 
5.   Personnel responsible for transmission of emergency information and instructions 
6.   Onsite repair and damage control teams 
7.   First aid and rescue personnel 
8.   Medical support personnel 
9.   Local law enforcement personnel 
10.  Local Civil Defense/Emergency Service personnel 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 26 of 56 
 
 
11.  Media personnel 
12.  State Government Agencies 
5.9 Maintenance of Plans and Procedures 
5.9.1 Review of Plans 
In accordance with 10CFR 50.54(t) the Utilities Procedures and Surveillances provide 
for the conduct of an annual independent adequacy review of the Monticello and 
Prairie Island Offsite Emergency Preparedness Program.  (The independent review 
may be conducted by either an internal or external organization.)  Individuals who have 
no direct responsibility for implementation of the Emergency Preparedness Program 
will conduct the review.  The review will include the Emergency Plans, Implementing 
Procedures, training, readiness testing, interface with state and local organizations, 
and equipment.  Management controls will be implemented for evaluation and 
correction of review findings.  The result of the review will be documented, reported to 
appropriate organizational management and retained for a period of 6 years.  The part 
of the review involving the evaluation for adequacy of interface with state and local 
governments SHALL be made available to the appropriate state and local 
governments. 
In addition, the Utility will review and update plans and procedures as needed and they 
will be certified to be current on an annual basis. The update will take into account 
changes identified during drills and exercises. Other reviews of the Emergency Plan 
and Implementing Procedures will be performed as required by Technical 
Specifications. 
5.9.2 Control of Plans and Procedures 
Emergency Plans and approved changes will be distributed in a controlled manner. 
Assigned copies of state and local plans, required at specific locations within the 
NSPM/Xcel Energy organization, will be updated in the same controlled manner. When 
making revisions to the Monticello and Prairie Island Off-site Nuclear Emergency Plan, 
the section of the plan containing the changes will be revised and issued as a whole. 
The plan will be marked (side barred) to show where changes have been made. The 
review, revision and issuance of controlled copies of the Nuclear Emergency Plans will 
be conducted in accordance with standard Utility procedures for document control. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 27 of 56 
 
 
5.9.3 Surveillance Program 
A Surveillance Program has been developed to ensure that Monticello and Prairie 
Island Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan facilities and procedures are in a current state 
of readiness.  Communication links with federal, state, and county governments are 
tested monthly and inventories of equipment are conducted quarterly. Surveillances 
have also been prepared to conduct the annual independent review, quarterly 
inventory, and the quarterly updating of emergency response telephone numbers. The 
Emergency Planning Zone (EPZ) brochure/calendar, Ingestion Planning Zone (IPZ) 
brochure, and handouts for transients are reviewed annually and updated, as needed. 
5.10 Emergency Medical Plan 
5.10.1 Emergency Medical Plan Objective 
The purpose of this section is to provide an overview of the process to be followed to 
ensure that prompt, effective and complete medical assistance is available to a nuclear 
power plant employee in the event of an accident involving an injury or illness which 
may be complicated by radiation exposure and/or contamination. 
To provide the best medical treatment possible for its employees, the Utility has made 
arrangements with certain off-site medical facilities to care for radiation complicated 
injuries or illnesses.  Because these facilities have special equipment, expertise and 
training, these facilities will be used for this infrequent, but specialized patient care.  
Any referral of NSPM/Xcel Energy employees outside of this off-site medical system 
will be done at the direction of the Utility Medical Review Officer, the patient's request, 
the patient's authorized representative, or per the hospital's mutual aid and transfer 
agreements with hospitals appropriate to the patient needs and acuity. 
For Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant, the principle off-site medical support consists 
of: 
   CentraCare Health EMS (ambulance) Monticello, MN 
   CentraCare Health, Monticello, MN 
   North Memorial Medical Center, Robbinsdale, MN 
   Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN 
   St. Cloud Hospital (CentraCare) St. Cloud, MN 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 28 of 56 
 
 
For Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant the principle off-site medical support 
consists of: 
   Red Wing Fire and Ambulance Service 
   Mayo Clinic Health System-Red Wing, MN 
   Regions Hospital, St. Paul, MN 
   North Memorial Medical Center, Robbinsdale, MN 
5.10.2 Activation/Plant 
1.   The Shift Manager/Emergency Director is responsible for assessing the extent of 
injuries, radiation exposure and/or contamination that an individual may have 
received during their shift. Their assessment of the personnel, injured with or 
without radiation exposure or contamination, is to include the need for offsite 
medical assistance. The Shift Manager/Emergency Director can use any member 
of the Corporate Medical staff to evaluate the extent of such injuries, if such an 
individual is available. Additionally, the Shift Manager/Emergency Director can 
use any available Health Physics expertise to evaluate the victim’s radiation 
exposure or contamination. Once the Shift Manager/Emergency Director has 
determined that off-site medical assistance is necessary, it is their responsibility 
to ensure that the local medical hospital and ambulance group are contacted, in 
accordance with the Plant Emergency Implementing Procedures, to arrange for 
transportation of the victims. 
2.   The Plant Emergency Implementing Procedures describe how the hospital is to 
be notified and discusses what information the hospital needs to ensure their 
emergency rooms are prepared to receive the potentially 
contaminated/over-exposed, injured victim. 
5.10.3 Activation/Local Hospital 
The local hospital or fire department is responsible for the transportation of all 
personnel from Monticello or Prairie Island Nuclear Generating sites.  They will receive 
all NSPM/Xcel Energy personnel that are injured and/or contaminated and/or have 
received an overdose of ionizing radiation.  The local hospital will provide initial medical 
treatment and decontamination care and, after the patient is stabilized, will arrange, if 
necessary, the transportation of patients to North Memorial Medical Center, Regions 
Hospital, or CentraCare Health St. Cloud via air or ambulance as weather dictates. 
Patients may be transferred directly to a Definitive Care Center if the injury(s) warrant. 
Additionally, the local hospital could make contact with the Radiation Emergency 
Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) as deemed necessary, to seek further 
medical advice and expertise. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 29 of 56 
 
 
5.10.4 Activation/Definitive Care Center 
1.   North Memorial Medical Center, located in Robbinsdale, Regions Hospital in St. 
Paul, and St. Cloud Hospital (CentraCare) in St. Cloud are designated by this 
Plan as Definitive Care Centers, in accordance with our current Letters of 
Agreement (Attachment 5). 
2.   The Definitive Care Center will be responsible for providing definitive evaluation 
and treatment of more serious trauma, illness and for radiation overexposure.  
The personnel at the Definitive Care Center could contact the Radiation 
Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) for advice as necessary. 
3.   Should the need arise for further advanced medical treatment of radiation 
overexposure (for example, bone marrow transplant), this arrangement and 
decision will be made after evaluation of the patient by the medical staff at the 
Definitive Care Center, in consultation with the Utility Medical Review 
Officer/Medical Advisor, and any other medical consultants. The facilities (locally 
& nationally) able to perform this procedure will be described to the patient and 
their authorized representative, and referral made according to their wishes. 
5.10.5 Activation/Medical Resource Person 
The Utility Medical Review Officer/Medical Advisor would be available to provide 
medical expertise on the extent of the injury, act as Company spokesperson, and 
assist in determination of when the services and/or advice of emergency medical 
assistance would be needed during a nuclear power plant event involving a 
contaminated/overexposed and/or injured individual. 
5.10.6 Activation of Emergency Medical Assistance 
In the event of a suspected or actual radiation accident, where the aforementioned 
medical facilities need additional emergency medical assistance, this assistance can 
be provided by Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) and 
is available as a public agency on a 24-hour basis.  The assistance is comprised of, but 
not limited to the following: 
1.   Upon notification, establish immediate means of communication between 
emergency response personnel and all other facilities involved in the 
management of the accident. 
2.   Provide consultation and laboratory services for the evaluation of the patient's 
radiological health status, if requested. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 30 of 56 
 
 
3.   Assist the local hospital and/or the Definitive Care Center in the evaluation and 
the care of the accident victim. 
4.   Assist or provide a list of commercial entities that could provide support of the 
Utility Medical Review Officer/Medical Advisor in the arrangement for evacuation 
of the radiation over-exposed patient(s) to a medical center for advanced 
treatment, if necessary. 
Additional medical consultants will be requested as determined by the Utility 
Emergency and Medical Management. 
NOTE: 
Attachments 3 and 4 provide an illustration of patient flow through the medical 
system 
5.10.7 Multiple Patients 
If multiple patients result from an accident, they will be triaged and decontaminated, if 
necessary, according to accepted medical principles at each level of care, starting at 
the plant site. 
5.10.8 Medical Drills and Training 
The objective of medical training and drills is to ensure prompt, effective and complete 
medical assistance is available to site personnel in the event of an accident involving 
injury which is complicated by radiation exposure and/or contamination.  To meet this 
objective, NSPM/Xcel Energy will provide training and conduct drills to ensure that 
personnel at all levels of care (plant, ambulance, local hospitals and occasionally, 
definitive care centers) can respond properly to a radiation emergency medical 
problem. 
Training covering methods of dealing with radiation and contamination problems during 
a medical emergency will be provided annually for the following off-site and on-site 
Emergency Response groups: 
1.   Site First Responder Personnel 
2.   Local hospital personnel, Emergency Room staff 
3.   Physicians Training will be offered periodically 
4.   Ambulance personnel, Emergency Medical Technicians 
5.   Definitive Care personnel and other medical staff that may be involved in the care 
of patients with radiological concerns 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 31 of 56 
 
 
All medical drills and training to support the Medical Plan are described in the 
Emergency Preparedness Training Program. 
5.10.9 Program Maintenance 
In order to maintain an effective on-site and off-site response program, the following 
tasks will be performed: 
1.   Conduct periodic inventories of plant and hospital equipment and supplies used 
for handling radiation medical emergencies.  Replenish supplies as necessary, 
based on inventory results or as requested by hospital or ambulance staff.  The 
results of these periodic surveillances are to be filed by the respective plant. 
2.   Perform periodic review of hospital telephone numbers and communication 
checks.  The responsibility of this review and communications check will be the 
respective plants for the local hospitals and the Offsite planning group will 
perform the communication check with North Memorial Medical Center and 
Regions Hospital. 
3.   Periodic review and inventories should be done at least annually. 
5.11 Implementing Procedures 
 
TITLE 
SECTION OF OFFSITE  
EMERGENCY PLAN 
IMPLEMENTED 
FP-EP-IP-01, “Offsite Emergency Response 
Organization” 
3.0, 3.1 
FP-EP-IP-02, “Emergency Organization Shift 
Turnover” 
3.1.2 
FP-EP-IP-03, “Communication Equipment and 
Information”  
5.3, Attachment 2 
FP-EP-IP-04, “Start-up and Operation of 
SEOC/JIC (and Remote Locations)” 
3.1.1, 4.10, 5.3.3.4,  5.5.2 
6.0   RECORDS 
None 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 32 of 56 
 
 
7.0   REFERENCES 
7.1 SOURCE DOCUMENTS 
7.1.1 Combines all Sections of the Offsite Emergency Preparedness Plan to one common 
document under FP-EP-PLAN-01 
7.1.2 10CFR 50.47 and Appendix E 
7.1.3 NUREG-0654, "Criteria for Preparation and Evaluation of Radiological Emergency 
Response Plans and Preparedness in Support of Nuclear Power Plants". 
7.2 REFERENCE DOCUMENTS 
7.2.1 FP-EP-  IP-01, “Offsite Emergency Response Organization” 
7.2.2 FP-EP-  IP-02, “Offsite Emergency Organization Shift Turnover”  
7.2.3 FP-EP-  IP-03, “Communication Equipment and Information” 
7.2.4 FP-EP-  IP-04, “Start-up and Operation of SEOC/JIC (and Remote Locations)” 
7.2.5 10CFR Part 50, Appendix E 
7.2.6 10CFR 50.54 
7.3 COMMITMENTS 
None 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 33 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 1 
MONTICELLO AND PRAIRIE ISLAND OFFSITE EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
ORGANIZATION 
 
NSPM/Xcel Energy
Executive Management
Executive Spokesperson
Located at State EOC/JIC
Technical 
Resource
Staff at JIC
Communications
Representative 
and Administrative 
Staff
State EP LiaisonSecurity Advisor
County EP Liaison
Recovery
Manager
Emergency
Manager
Emergency
Director
Communication
Department
EOF Organization
(See Site Plans)
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 34 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 2 
BACKUP EOF EQUIPMENT 
1. Communication System (General) 
a. Corporate Phone System - A Failure Analysis of telephone lines has been 
conducted and it was determined that the Backup EOF has adequate failure 
protection. Telephone, radio, and private line circuits are spread between two feeder 
and riser cables to reduce the chances of a complete failure. Approximately two 
dozen commercial telephone lines are available for use. 
b. Facsimile Stations -Two facsimile machine extensions, to allow for incoming and 
outgoing faxes. 
c. 800 Mghz  Paging System Radio 
d. NRC Phones  - Should the NRC decide to co-locate at the Backup EOF, telephone 
lines have been assigned for this purpose. 
e. INPO Nuclear Network - A computer is available that can access the INPO Nuclear 
Network to send, receive, and retrieve messages. 
f. E-Mail - Equipment is available for sending electronic mail messages to both sites. 
Printers are available to print hard copies of messages sent.  
2. Backup EOF Phones Monticello Specific 
a.  Technical Support Communicator (Status Board) Telephone extension 
b.  Monticello Field Survey Team Radio 
3. Backup EOF Phones Prairie Island Specific 
a.  Technical Support Communicator (Status Board) Prairie Island Plant extension 
b.  Prairie Island Field Survey Team Radio 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 35 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 2
 CONT’D 
BACKUP EOF EQUIPMENT 
4. Minnesota State EOC/JIC 
a.  Telephone Lines - NSPM/XCEL ENERGY Executive Spokesperson General Office 
extension and a Rice Street extension  
1)   Facsimile Machine – General Office extension 
2)   Facsimile Machine - MN Dept. of Health - extension  
b.  800 Mghz  Paging System Radio 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 36 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 3 
MONTICELLO 
 
CARE UNIT SCOPE OF TREATMENT 
 
METHOD OF TRANSPORT 
SITE 
 
FIRST AID (FAMILY 
DOCTOR) 
 
N/A (PERSONAL VEHICLE) 
CENTRACARE HEALTH - 
MONTICELLO 
 
PRIMARY CARE CENTRACARE HEALTH - MONTICELLO 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL 
MEDICAL CENTER 
SECONDARY DEFINITIVE 
CARE 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
(CENTRACARE HEALTH Ambulance) 
 
REGIONS HOSPITAL SECONDARY DEFINITIVE  
TREATMENT 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
(CENTRACARE HEALTH Ambulance) 
 
ST. CLOUD HOSPITAL 
(CENTRACARE) 
SECONDARY DEFINITIVE 
TREATMENT 
CENTRACARE HEALTH 
Ambulance 
   
CONSULTANTS 
MISCELLANEOUS 
CARE CENTERS 
 
TERTIARY DEFINITIVE 
CARE 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
CENTRACARE HEALTH Ambulance 
 
 
 
RADIATION EMERGENCY 
ASSISTANCE 
CENTER/TRAINING SITE 
(REAC/TS) 
24 HOUR ASSISTANCE 
RADIATION EVALUATION 
LABORATORY SERVICES 
CONSULTATION VIA PHONE 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 37 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 4 
PRAIRIE ISLAND 
 
CARE UNIT SCOPE OF TREATMENT 
 
METHOD OF TRANSPORT 
SITE 
 
 
FIRST AID (FAMILY 
DOCTOR) 
N/A (PERSONAL VEHICLE) 
MAYO CLINIC HEALTH 
SYSTEM – RED WING 
 
PRIMARY CARE RED WING FIRE/EMS 
 
REGIONS HOSPITAL SECONDARY DEFINITIVE 
CARE 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
(RED WING FIRE/EMS) 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL MEDICAL 
CENTER 
SECONDARY DEFINITIVE  
TREATMENT 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
(RED WING FIRE/EMS) 
CONSULTANTS 
MISCELLANEOUS 
CARE CENTERS 
 
TERTIARY DEFINITIVE 
CARE 
 
NORTH MEMORIAL AIRCARE 
(RED WING FIRE/EMS) 
 
RADIATION EMERGENCY 
ASSISTANCE 
CENTER/TRAINING SITE 
(REAC/TS) 
24 HOUR ASSISTANCE 
RADIATION EVALUATION 
LABORATORY SERVICES 
CONSULTATION VIA PHONE 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 38 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 5 
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT 
 
 
GENERAL (in support of both plant sites) 
 
1.     Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO)  
2.     State of Minnesota  
3.     Regions Hospital  
4.     Environmental, Inc. Midwest Laboratory  
5.     Department of Energy-Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
6.     North Memorial Health Care 
 
Burlington Northern Railroad System LOA was removed from LOA lists in the 1980s due to 
Minnesota Department of Transport taking on the responsibility of coordinating the closing all 
rail, water, and air traffic during Site Area and General Emergencies. 
 
MONTICELLO 
 
7.     Pooled Equipment Inventory Company (PEICo) 
8.     General Electric  
9.     CentraCare Health – Monticello (formerly New River Medical Center and Ambulance 
Service) (Transfer Agreement with North Memorial) 
10    Sherburne County Emergency Services 
11.    Wright County 
12.    City of Monticello – to include Monticello Fire Department 
13.    St. Cloud Hospital (CentraCare) - St. Cloud 
 
PRAIRIE ISLAND 
 
14.    Dakota County Emergency Services 
15.    Goodhue County Emergency Management 
16.    Pierce County Emergency Management 
17.    City of Red Wing – to include Red Wing Fire Department 
18.    Mayo Clinic Health System – Red Wing 
19.    Westinghouse Electric Company 
20.    State of Wisconsin 
21.    Sacred Heart Hospital 
22.    Prairie Island Indian Community 
23.    Canadian Pacific Railway- LOA is specific to only Prairie Island because of “critical 
crossing” to plant access 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 39 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 6 
RADIATION ENVIRONMENT MONITORING PLAN 
 
Activation of the Radiation Environmental Monitoring Program (REMP) is accomplished 
through existing Site Emergency Plan Implementing Procedures. 
 
In addition, a Letter of Agreement between The NSPM/Xcel Energy and 
Environmental, Inc. Midwest Laboratory exists which states Environmental, Inc. 
Midwest Laboratory will respond upon request to augment our environmental sampling 
and monitoring program. 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 40 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 7 
MONTICELLO AND PRAIRIE ISLAND CONSERVATIVE GUIDANCE FOR 
PROTECTIVE ACTION AND RECOMMENDATION 
 
See Site Plans 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 41 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 8 
EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES – PRAIRIE ISLAND 
 
EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES FOR THE PLUME 
EXPOSURE PATHWAY EMERGENCY PLANNING ZONE 
 
PRAIRIE ISLAND NUCLEAR GENERATING PLANT 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
Xcel Energy 
 
Prepared by: 
KLD Engineering, P.C. 
43 Corporate Drive 
Hauppauge, NY 11788 
 
November 2012 
 
 
 
The Evacuation Time Estimate Study was revised and completed November 2012.  The revised 
Study replaces the one conducted in December 2008.  The complete Study is on file.  A copy of 
it can be made available upon request, to those who have a need. 
 
Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant Protective Action Recommendations are based on the 
November 2012 Evacuation Time Estimate Study.  

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 42 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 9 
EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES - MONTICELLO 
 
EVACUATION TIME ESTIMATES FOR THE PLUME 
EXPOSURE PATHWAY EMERGENCY PLANNING ZONE 
 
MONTICELLO NUCLEAR GENERATING PLANT 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
Xcel Energy 
 
Prepared by: 
KLD Engineering, P.C. 
43 Corporate Drive 
Hauppauge, NY 11788 
 
November 2012 
 
 
 
The Evacuation Time Estimate Study was revised and completed November 2012. The revised 
Study replaces the one conducted in December 2008.  The complete Study is on file. A copy of 
it can be made available upon request, to those who have a need. 
 
Monticello Protective Action Recommendations are based on the November 2012  Evacuation 
Time Estimate Study. 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 43 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
A.    Assignment of Responsibility 
 
 1.a. Response organization Section 1.0 
   Section 5.6 
   Section 5.4 
 
 1.b. Operation of organizations Section 5.1 
   Section 3.0 
    
 1.c. Organization's block diagrams Attachment 1 
    
 
 1.d. Responsible officials Section 1.0 
   Section 5.1 
 
 1.e. 24 hour response Site Specific 
   Section 5.4.1 
 
 2.a. Key functions State/Local Specific 
  
 2.b. Legal basis State/Local Specific 
 
 3. Written Agreements Attachment 5 
 
 4. Protracted operations Section 3.1.1 
   FP-EP-  IP-  02 
B.    Onsite Emergency Organization 
 
 1. Onsite Emergency Organization Site Specific 
 
 2. Designated Emergency Coordinator Site Specific 
 
 3. Line of succession Site Specific 
 
 4. Emergency Coordinator Functional Site Specific 
  Responsibilities 
 
 5. Positions, titles, major tasks Site Specific 
 
 6. Interfaces Section 5.6 
   Site Specific 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 44 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
B.    Onsite Emergency Organization (Continued)  
  
 7. Augmentation of Onsite Organization Section 3.0 
   Section 5.4 
   Site Specific 
 
 7.a. Logistics Support Section 3.0 
   Site Specific 
 
 7.b. Technical Support Section 3.0 
   Site Specific 
 
 7.c. Management Level Section 3.0 
   Section 5.6 
   Site Specific 
 
 7.d. Media Releases Section 3.1.1 
   Section 5.5 
    
 8. Contractor and private organization Site Specific 
   Site Specific 
 
 9. Services by local agencies Attachment 5 
 
C.    Emergency Response Support and Resources 
 
 1.a. Specific person for RAP/IRAP Section 5.4.2(5) 
  assistance requests 
 
 1.b. Specific federal resources expected Section5.4.2(5) 
 
 1.c. Specific resources available Section 5.4.2(5) 
    
 2.a. Representative from state to State Specific 
  licensee's EOF 
 
 2.b. Representative from Licensee Section 3.1.4 
  to state's EOC 
 
 3. Identify radiological laboratories Attachment 5 
   Site Specific 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 45 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
C.    Emergency Response Support and Resources (continued) 
 
 4. Emergency Assistance Site Specific 
   Section 5.4.2(5) 
   Attachment 5 
  
D.    Emergency Classification System 
 
 1. Emergency Classification System Section 3.0 
   Site Specific 
  
 2. Initiating conditions Site Specific 
 
 3. State and local emergency State/Local Specific 
  classification scheme consistent  
  with licensee 
 
 4. State/local implementing procedures State/local specific 
 
E.    Notifications, Methods, and Procedures 
 
 1. Response organization's notification FP-EP-  IP-  04 
  and verification Site Specific 
 
 2. Procedures for notifying, alerting, Section 5.4.1(1) 
  response Section 5.4.1(2) 
  personnel  
 
 3. Initial emergency message contents Site Specific 
 
 4. Provisions for follow-up messages Site Specific 
  including following information  
    
  a.  Location of incident and caller identification 
    
  b.  Date/time of incident 
    
  c.  Class of emergency 
 
  d.  Type of release and estimated duration/impact time 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 46 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
E.    Notifications, Methods, and Procedures (continued) 
   
  e.  Estimate of quantity of radioactive material released, points and 
       heights of release 
    
  f.   Chemical/physical form of material  being released, including estimates 
      of quantity/concentration of noble  gases, iodines, particulates. 
    
  g.  Meteorological conditions 
    
  h.  Actual/projected dose rates/integrated dose at site boundary    
 
  I.   Projected dose rates/integrated  dose at 2, 5, and 10 miles 
   
j.   Estimate of any surface contamination 
 
k.  Licensee response actions underway. 
    
  l.   Recommended emergency actions, Protective actions 
   
  m. Request for onsite support 
    
  n.  Prognosis for worsening or termination of event 
 
 5. State/local means of public State/local specific 
  information 
 
 6. Prompt notification and public  Section 5.6 
  information system 
 
 7. Written messages for public  Section5.5 
  information State/local specific 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 47 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
F.    Emergency Communications 
 
 1.a. Provisions for 24-hour notification      Site Specific 
  and activation Section 5.4.1(1) 
    Section 5.4.1(2) 
    Section 5.4.2(2) 
 
 1.b. Provisions for communications with Attachment 2 
  state/local governments Site Specific 
 
 1.c. Provisions for communications with  Site Specific 
  Federal emergency response  Section 5.4.2(5) 
  organizations FP-EP-  IP-  03 
     
 1.d. Provisions for inter-licensee Attachment 2 
  communications FP-EP-  IP-  03 
 
 1.e. Provisions for alerting emergency Section 5.4 
  personnel  
 
 1.f. Provisions for communications with  FP-EP-  IP-  03 
  NRC   Attachment 2 
    Site Specific 
 
 2. Communications link for medical  FP-EP-  IP-  03 
  support Site Specific 
 
 3. Periodic testing of communications  Section 5.9.3 
  system Site Specific 
 
G.    Public Education and Information 
 
 1. Periodic dissemination of  
  information to public Section 5.5 
 
 2. Public information program Section 5.5 
                  
 3.a. Points of contact and physical  
  location for media use Section 5.3.3(4) 
 
 3.b. Space for media  Section 5.3.3(4) 
 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 48 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN  
REFERENCE 
 
G.    Public Education and Information (continued) 
 
 4.a. Designated spokesperson Section 3.1.2 
     
 4.b. Arrangements for timely exchange of Section 3.1.1 
  information  
 
 4.c. Arrangements for dealing with rumors Section 3.1.1 
    Section 5.5.2 
    Section 5.5.3 
 
 5. Coordinated programs for acquainting  
  media with E-plans and procedures Section 5.5.2 
 
 
H.    Emergency Facilities and Equipment 
 
 1. Technical Support Center Section 5.3.2 
    Site Specific 
 
 2. Emergency Operations Facility Section 5.3.1(2) 
 
 3. Emergency Operations Center State/local specific 
    Section 5.3.3 
 
 4. Timely activation and staffing of FP-EP-  IP-  04 
  facilities  
     
  
 5. Onsite monitoring systems Site Specific 
 
 6. Offsite monitoring and analysis  Site Specific 
  equipment  
 
 7. Provide for offsite radiological         Site Specific 
  monitoring equipment  
     
 8. Provide meteorological equipment Site Specific 
 
 9. Operations Support Center Site Specific 
  
 
 
 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 49 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN  
REFERENCE 
 
H.    Emergency Facilities and Equipment (continued) 
 
 10. Inspect, inventory, and operationally Site Specific    
  check emergency equipment Section 5.9.3 
 
     11. Emergency kits Site Specific 
     
     12. Establish central point for receipt  Section 5.3.1(2) 
  and analysis of field monitoring data Site Specific    
         
I.     Accident Assessment 
 
 1. Initiating conditions and off-normal 
  parameters and effluent values Site Specific 
 
 2. Onsite capabilities and resources to 
  provide initial and continuing values Site Specific 
 
 3.a. Determining source term Site Specific 
 
 3.b. Magnitude of release Site Specific 
 
 4. Relationship between effluent monitor Site Specific     
  readings and onsite/offsite monitoring                      
  results                
 
 
 5. Acquiring and evaluating meteorological Site Specific 
  data                   
 
 6. Methodology for determining release  
  rate and projected dose Site Specific 
 
 7. Field monitoring capability Site Specific 
             
 
 8. Rapid assessment of actual or projected Site Specific 
  magnitude and locations of airborne                
  releases                    
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 50 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
I.     Accident Assessment (continued) 
 
 9. Capability of determining activities Site Specific     
  as low as 10   uCi/cc                
 
     10. Means to relate measured parameters Site Specific    
  to dose rates for key isotopes                   
   
 11. State/local arrangements to track Plume    State/local specific 
    
J.    Protective Response 
 
 1. Warn and advise onsite personnel including: 
 
    a.    Employees without emergency  
   assignments Site Specific 
 
    b.    Visitors Site Specific 
 
    c.    Contractor and construction personnel Site Specific 
 
    d.    Other personnel on or near site  
   property Site Specific 
 
 2. Evacuation routes and transportation Site Specific 
     
 
 3. Provide for radiological monitoring of  Site Specific 
  evacuees  
 
 4. Evacuation of non-essential personnel Site Specific 
     
 
 5. Accountability Site Specific 
 
 6. Provisions for: 
 
    a.    Individual respiratory protection Site Specific 
 
   b.    Protective clothing  Site Specific 
 
    c.    Radio-protective drugs Site Specific 
 
 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 51 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
J.    Protective Response (continued) 
 
 7. Recommendation of protective actions Section 5.6 
                           Site Specific 
 
 8. Evacuation time estimates Attachment 8 & 9  
 
 9. State/local implementation of  
  protective measures State/local specific 
 
     10. Plans to implement protective measures: 
 
    a.    Maps of routes, evacuation areas, etc. Attachment 8 & 9 
     
    b.    Maps of population distribution Attachment8&9 
    
    c.    Means of notification of population Site Specific 
     
    d.    Means to protect mobility impaired   
   populace State/local specific 
 
    e.    Use of Radio-protective drugs State/local specific 
 
    f.     Decision process to use Radio- 
   protective drugs State/local specific 
 
    g.    Means of relocation State/local specific 
 
    h.    Relocation centers State/local specific 
 
     i.     Projected traffic capacities State/local specific 
    Attachment 8 & 9  
 
   j.     Control of access State/local specific 
 
    k.    Identification/means of handling  
   Impediments State/local specific 
 
    l.     Time estimates for evacuation State/local specific 
    Attachment 8 & 9  
 
    m.    Basis for recommended protective  State/local specific 
   actions Attachment 8 & 9  
    Site Specific 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 52 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
J.    Protective Response (continued) 
    
 11. Protective measures for ingestion 
  pathway State specific 
 
 12. Registration and monitoring evacuees State/local specific 
 
K.    Radiological Exposure Control 
 
 1. On Site exposure guidelines for: 
 
   a.    Removal of injured persons Site Specific 
   
   b.    Undertaking corrective action Site Specific 
  
   c.    Performing assessment actions Site Specific 
 
   d.    Providing first aid Site Specific 
 
   e.    Performing personnel  
   decontamination Site Specific 
 
   f.     Providing ambulance service Site Specific 
 
   g.    Providing medical treatment 
   services Site Specific 
  
 2. Onsite Radiation Protection Program Site Specific 
 
 3 a.    Emergency personnel dose determination Site Specific 
       
   b.    Dose records and use of dosimeters Site Specific    
                       
 4. Decision chain to exceed EPA PAG for 
  emergency workers State/local specific 
 
 5 a.    Need for decontamination Site Specific     
 
   b.    Means of decontamination Site Specific     
 
 6. Onsite contamination control for: 
 
   a.    Area access control Site Specific 
  
   b.    Drinking water/food supplies Site Specific 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 53 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
K.    Radiological Exposure Control (continued) 
 
   c.    Return of areas and items to normal  Site Specific 
   use                                        
 
 7. Decontamination of relocated onsite 
  personnel Site Specific      
 
L.    Medical and Public Health Support 
 
 1. Local and backup Hospital/Medical services Attachment 5, Section 
5.10.1 
 
 2. Onsite first aid capability Site  Specific,  Section 
5.10.1 
  
 3. Lists of public, private, and  
  military hospitals State specific 
 
 4. Transportation of radiological accident 
  victims Attachment  5,  Section 
5.10.1 
 
M.    Recovery and    Re-entry Planning and Post-Accident Operations 
 
 1. Re-entry and recovery plans and  Site Specific 
  procedures   
 
 2. Position/title, authority and  Site Specific 
  responsibilities  
 
 3. Method of informing emergency  FP-EP-  IP-  04 
  organization  
 
 4. Periodic estimate of population  Site Specific 
  exposure  
 
N.    Exercises and Drills 
 
 1.a. Emergency preparedness exercise Section 5.8.1 
 
 1.b. Exercise mobilization Section 5.8.1 
 
 2. Emergency preparedness drills:  
 
    a.    Communications drills Section 5.9.3 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 54 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
N.    Exercise and Drills (continued) 
 
    b.    Fire drill Site Specific 
 
    c.    Medical emergency drills Site Specific 
    Section 5.10.8 
 
    d.    Radiological monitoring drills Site Specific 
 
    e.    1.  Health physics drills Site Specific 
   2.  Inplant liquid samples Site Specific 
 
 3. Exercise and drill development for: 
 
    a.    Basic objectives Site Specific 
 
    b.    Date(s), time period, participants Site Specific 
 
    c.    Simulated events Site Specific 
 
    d.    Time schedule of real/simulated events Site Specific 
 
    e.    Narrative summary Site Specific 
 
  f.     Description of arrangements for official Site Specific 
   observers  
 
 4. Exercise critique Site Specific 
     
 
 5. Means of evaluating comments Site Specific 
     
 
O.    Radiological Emergency Response Training 
 
 1. Appropriate training assurances Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    a.    Site Specific training Site Specific 
     
  
  b.    Offsite response organization training Section 5.8.3 
    State/local specific 
 
 2. Onsite drills Site Specific 
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 55 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
O.    Radiological Emergency Response Training (continued) 
 
 3. First aid training Site Specific 
     
 
 4. Position training as follows:  
    a.    Director/coordinator Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    b.    Accident assessment personnel Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    c.    Radiological monitoring and analysis Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
     
  d.    Police, security, fire fighting  Section 5.8.3 
   personnel Site Specific 
 
    e.    Repair and damage control personnel Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    f.     First aid and rescue personnel Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    g.    Local support services personnel Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
 
    h.    Medical support personnel Section 5.8.3, 5.10.8 
    Site Specific 
 
    i.     Transmission of information and  Section 5.8.3 
   instruction personnel Site Specific 
 
 5. Initial training and annual retraining Section 5.8.3 
    Site Specific 
P.    Responsibility for the Planning Effort:  Development Periodic 
 Review and Distribution of Emergency Plans 
  
 1. Training for responsible personnel of 
  planning effort Section 5.8.3 
 
 2. Authority and responsibility Section 1.0 
    Site Specific 
     
 
 

Offsite Nuclear Emergency Plan  
Revision: 8 
FP-EP-PLAN-01 Page 56 of 56 
 
 
Attachment 10
 CONT’D 
OFFSITE NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN CROSS REFERENCE INDEX 
NUREG 0654 REFERENCE E-PLAN 
REFERENCE 
 
P.    Responsibility for the Planning Effort:  Development Periodic Review and 
 Distribution of Emergency Plans (continued) 
 
 3. Emergency Planning Coordinator designee Section 1.0 
    Site Specific 
     
 
 4. Update plan and agreements as needed, review and  
  certify it to be current on an annual basis.  Section    5.9.1 
    Attachment 5  
 
 5. Control of approved, revised plans and 
  procedures Section 5.9.2 
 
 6. Detailed listing of supporting plans  
  and sources Section 5.0 
 
 7. Appendix for Implementing Procedures Section 5.11 
 
 8. Specific Table of Contents Table of Contents 
 
 9. Annual independent reviews Section 5.9.1 
 
     10. Quarterly update of emergency  Section 5.9.3 
  telephone number